[("Orlando", "I remember, Adam, thats exactlyThe actual reason is never made clear; the audience has happened upon a conversation already in progress.exactly why my father only left me a thousand crowns in his will. And as you know, my father commanded my brother, Oliver, to make sure that I was brought up welland thats where my sadness begins. Oliver keeps my brother Jaques away at school, and everyone says hes doing extremely well there. But he keeps me at home in the countryto be precise, he keeps me stuck at home but doesnt support me. I ask you, is this any way to treat a gentleman as nobly born as I am, to pen me in like an ox? His horses get treated better than I doat least he feeds them and trains them properly, and spends a lot of money on trainers for them. All Ive gained from his care is weight, which makes me as indebted to him as his animals on the manure pile are. He gives me plenty of nothing, and takes away everything else, letting me eat with his servants, refusing me whats owed me as his brother, and ruining my good birth with a poor education. This is what angers me, Adam. My fathers temper and spirit, which I think I share, makes me want to mutiny against my brothers tyranny. I wont stand for it any longer, though I havent yet figured out how to revolt."), ("Adam", "Here comes my master, your brother."), ("Orlando", "Go hide, Adam, and youll hear how he abuses me."), ("Oliver", "Hey, you! What are you makingOliver means what are you doing here, but Orlando interprets making in its usual sense.making here?"), ("Orlando", "Nothing. Ive never been taught how to make anything."), ("Oliver", "Well, then, what are you messing up?"), ("Orlando", "Im helping you mess up one of Gods creationsyour poor, unworthy brotherby having him do nothing."), ("Oliver", "Indeed, sir, find something better to do and get lost for a while."), ("Orlando", "Should I tend your pigs and eat husks with them? When did I wasteOrlando alludes to the prodigal son, a figure from the Bible who leaves home, spends all his money, and returns to his fathers house in poverty (Luke 15).waste so much money that I ended up this poor?"), ("Oliver", "Do you know where you are, sir?"), ("Orlando", "Yes, sir, very wellIm here in your orchard."), ("Oliver", "Do you know whom youre talking to?"), ("Orlando", "Yes, better than you know me. I know youre my oldest brother, and deserve more respect. But were in the same family, so you should acknowledge that I am a gentleman too. According to custom, as the first-born you are my superior. But its not customary to treat me like Im not even a gentleman, even if there were twenty brothers between you and me. I have as much of our father in me as you do, though I admit youre closer to him and matter more because youre older."), ("Oliver", "(hitting ORLANDO) What nerve!"), ("Orlando", "(grabbing hold of OLIVER) Come on, big brother; you dont know anything about fighting."), ("Oliver", "What, you dare put your hands on me, villain?"), ("Orlando", "Im no villain. Im the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys, and anyone who claims my fathers sons are villains is a villain himself. If you werent my brother, Id leave this hand of mine on your neck until Id pulled out your tongue for talking like this. Youve only insulted yourself."), ("Adam", "Gentlemen, calm down. For the sake of your fathers memory, make peace."), ("Oliver", "Let me go, I say."), ("Orlando", "I wont until Im ready. You will listen to me. My father instructed you in his will to give me a good education. But youve raised me as a peasant, hiding from me what I needed to become a gentleman. My fathers spirit is growing in me, and I wont take this any longer. Either give me the freedom to act like someone of my own rank or give me my share of the inheritance, so that I can seek my fortune elsewhere."), ("Oliver", "And what are you going to do after youve spent your money? Beg? Well, sir, go inside. Im not going to be bothered by you for long. Youll get some of what you want. Now please leave me alone."), ("Orlando", "I wont bother you any more than necessary."), ("Oliver", "(to ADAM) And you get lost too, you old dog."), ("Adam", "Is that my rewardto be called old dog? Well, its true, Ive served this family so long Ive gotten old and toothless, like a dog. God bless my old master. He would never have spoken to me like this."), ("Oliver", "Is that how its going to be? Are you starting to challenge me? Ill cure you of your insolence, and Im not going to give you a thousand crowns, either! Hey, Dennis!"), ("Dennis", "Did you call for me, your Worship?"), ("Oliver", "Wasnt Charles, the dukes wrestler, here to speak with me?"), ("Dennis", "Yes, sir, hes here at the door right now and asks to see you."), ("Oliver", "Call him in. I have a good plan. And tomorrow is the wrestling match."), ("Charles", "Good morning, sir."), ("Oliver", "Good Mr. Charles! Tell me, whats the latest news at the new court?"), ("Charles", "No news but the old news: the old Duke Senior has been banished by his younger brother, the new Duke Frederick. A few loyal lords have gone into exile with Duke Senior, and given up their lands and money to Frederickso hes happy enough to have them leave."), ("Oliver", "Can you tell me whether Rosalind, Duke Seniors daughter, has also been banished?"), ("Charles", "Oh, no. Duke Fredericks daughter, Celia, grew up with Rosalind, and Celia loves her cousin so much that she would have either followed her into exile or died of grief. Rosalind has stayed at court, where Duke Frederick loves her like his own daughter. No two women ever loved each other like they do."), ("Oliver", "Where will the old duke live?"), ("Charles", "They say hes already in the Forest of Arden. He has many cheerful men with him, and they live like Robin Hood and his outlaws. People say that new batches of young men flock there every day, and that they all pass the time without a care, like people did in the Golden AgeIn Greek mythology, the first humans lived in a Golden Age, free from work, conflict, or violence, and without the need of laws. Golden Age."), ("Oliver", "So, are you going to wrestle before the new duke tomorrow?"), ("Charles", "Indeed I do, sir, and Ive come to let you in on a certain problem. Ive been informed by certain sources I cant disclose that your younger brother Orlando plans to fight me in disguise. Tomorrow, sir, Im fighting for my reputation, and any man who gets away without a broken bone or two is an exceptional wrestler indeed. Your brother is young and inexperienced, and because of my affection for you, Id hate to crush himthough Id have to, if he challenged me. Im telling you all this out of affection for you, so you can either keep him from carrying out his plans or prepare to accept his disgrace, which will be his own fault, not mine."), ("Oliver", "Charles, I thank you for your loyalty to me, and youll see that Ill reward you. Id heard about my brothers plan and have been subtly trying to change his mind, but hes determined. I tell you, Charles, hes the stubbornest young fellow in France: overly ambitious, jealous of other peoples good qualities, and a traitor against me, his own blood brother. So use your discretion. Id be just as happy if you broke his neck as his finger. And youd better be careful, because if you embarrass him at allin fact, if he doesnt beat you thoroughlyhell come after you and wont leave you alone till hes poisoned you or trapped youkilled you, in other words, one way or another. It brings me to tears to say this, but there isnt another person alive who is so young and at the same time so wicked. Because hes my brother, I have to take his side. But if I really laid him bare, Id have to weep and hang my head, and you would not believe me, his behavior is so shocking."), ("Charles", "Im very glad I came to see you. If he shows up tomorrow, Ill give him whats coming to him. If he can manage to walk after our fight, Ill never wrestle for money again. Farewell, my lord."), ("Oliver", "Take care, Charles. Now its time to get this playboy brother of mine all worked up. I hope Ill see the end of him soonI dont know why, but I hate nothing in the world as much as him, though hes an upstanding guy. Hes never gone to school but hes smart, with good values, and everyone is delighted by him and loves him, especially my subjects, who know him the best. They love him, and therefore they despise me. But not for long; Charles will take care of everything. All I have to do is get Orlando to fight, which Ill do now."), ("Celia", "Please, Rosalind, my sweet cousinbe happy."), ("Rosalind", "Dear CeliaI already look much happier than I feel, but you want me to look even happier? Unless you can also teach me how to forget my banished father, you shouldnt try to teach me how to be happy."), ("Celia", "Well, by this I can see that you dont love me as much as I love you. If your father had banished my father, I could have learned to love your father as my own, as long as I still had you. Youd do the same, if your love for me were as true as mine for you."), ("Rosalind", "Well, Ill just forget the difficulties of my situation, in order to focus on the happiness of yours."), ("Celia", "You know Im my fathers only child, and he isnt likely to have another. And when he dies, you will inherit his fortunebecause whatever he took from your father by force, I will return to you as affection. I swear I will, and if I ever break my promise let me turn into a monster. So please, my sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be happy."), ("Rosalind", "From now on I will, cousin, and Ill think of all kinds of games for us. Let me seewhat do you think about falling in love?"), ("Celia", "Yes, please do, so we can have a good laugh about it. But dont fall in love for real, and dont take the game too far. You want to get out of it easily, and with your honor intact."), ("Rosalind", "Well, then, what should we do for fun instead?"), ("Celia", "Lets go find that hussy, Fortune, and and mock her till she starts distributing her gifts more equally."), ("Rosalind", "I wish we could do that, because Fortune gives all of her gifts to the wrong people, and she especially gets things wrong where women are concerned."), ("Celia", "Its true: the women she makes beautiful she also makes slutty, and the women she makes pure and virginal she also makes ugly."), ("Rosalind", "No, youre getting Fortune and Nature mixed up: Nature determines how were made, and Fortune decides what happens to us."), ("Celia", "Oh, really? Well, when Nature makes a person beautiful, cant Fortune make her fall into a fire, thereby making her ugly after all? And even though Nature has given us the wit to have this argument, hasnt Fortune sent this fool here to stop us?"), ("Rosalind", "Yes, and now Fortune is playing a nasty trick on Nature: shes breaking up a show of wit between two naturally witty women with the arrival of a natural fool."), ("Celia", "Well, maybe this is Natures work after all. Maybe Nature sensed that were not smart enough to be having this high-flown discussion about goddesses, so she sent us this fool to use as a mental whetstoneA whetstone is used to sharpen knives.whetstone. After all, smart peoples' wits are always sharpened by the presence of a fool. Whats up, you wit? Where are you wandering off to?"), ("Touchstone", "Mistress, you have to go see your father."), ("Celia", "Did they make you the messenger?"), ("Touchstone", "No, by my honor, but they told me to come get youTouchstone is pretending that Celia meant, Have you come to arrest us? The term messenger was commonly used to describe some one who came with a warrant.get you."), ("Rosalind", "Whered you learn a phrase like, by my honor, fool?"), ("Touchstone", "From a certain knight who swore on his honor that the pancakes he was eating were good, and that the mustard on top of themhe swore on his honorwas bad. Now, Ill swear to the oppositethat the pancakes were rotten, and the mustard was finebut even so, the knight wasnt lying."), ("Celia", "And how, out of your great heap of knowledge, will you manage to prove that?"), ("Rosalind", "Yes, please; unleash your wisdom."), ("Touchstone", "Watch me: stroke your chins and swear by your beards that I am a knave."), ("Celia", "By our beards (if we had them), you are a knave."), ("Touchstone", "And I swear by my wickedness (if I had any) that I am a knave. But you cant swear by what you dont haveand this knight had no honor, or if he did, he swore it off before he ever saw those pancakes and that mustard."), ("Celia", "Tell me, who is this knight?"), ("Touchstone", "A man old Frederick, your father, loves."), ("Celia", "If he has my fathers love, then thats enough honor for me. Enough of this. No more talk about my father; youll be whipped for slander one of these days."), ("Touchstone", "Its a pity that fools arent allowed to speak wisely about the foolish things that wise men do."), ("Celia", "Honestly, youre speaking the truthever since the fools were silencedBy silencing Celia may mean the burning of satirical books, in 1599.silenced, the foolishness of wise men has become all the more apparent. Here comes Monsieur Le Beau."), ("Rosalind", "With his mouth full of news."), ("Celia", "Which hell shove down our throats the way pigeons feed their young."), ("Rosalind", "Then well be stuffed with news."), ("Celia", "Well thats good. If were fattenedA recently fed (and thus heavier) bird was worth more at the market.fattened up, well be worth more. Hello, Monsieur Le Beau. Whats the news?"), ("Le beau", "Fair princess, youve missed some good sport."), ("Celia", "Sport? Of what colorIn other words, what kind of sport.color?"), ("Le beau", "What color, madam? I dont understandhow should I answer that?"), ("Rosalind", "However your wit and luck allow."), ("Touchstone", "Or however the Destinies say you should."), ("Celia", "Nicely done; you laid that on thick."), ("Touchstone", "Well, if I dont keep up my rank"), ("Rosalind", "youll lose your smellTouchstone means he has to keep up his reputation as a jester; Rosalind interprets rank as foul smell.smell."), ("Le beau", "Youre confusing me, ladies. I was going to tell you all about a good wrestling match thats going on, which youre missing."), ("Rosalind", "Tell us about this wrestling."), ("Le beau", "Ill tell you about the beginning, and if you find that interesting you can see the end. The best is yet to come, and theyre going to perform it right here."), ("Celia", "Well, weve missed the beginning; its dead and buried."), ("Le beau", "There comes an old man with his three sons"), ("Celia", "It sounds like the beginning of an old folktale."), ("Le beau", "Three proper young men, all good looking and with great presence"), ("Rosalind", "Right, and they wore proclamations around their necks, saying, Be it known to all men by these presentsThis is a phrase found at the beginning of legal documents. Rosalind is punning on the word presence.presents"), ("Le beau", "The eldest of the three brothers wrestled with Charles, the dukes wrestler. Immediately, Charles threw the brother, breaking three of his ribs; its not likely he will survive. Charles did the same to the second brother, and the third. Theyre lying over there, and the poor old man, their father, weeps so piteously over them that the whole audience has joined him in grieving."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, dear!"), ("Touchstone", "But tell me, monsieurwhat sport are the ladies missing?"), ("Le beau", "Why, the one I just told you about."), ("Touchstone", "Men must be getting wiser every day; thats the first time Ive heard that rib-breaking was appropriate entertainment for ladies."), ("Celia", "Me too, I swear."), ("Rosalind", "Doesnt anyone else want to see this, and hear breath wheezing out from broken ribs? Does anyone else love rib breaking? Shall we go watch this wrestling, cousin?"), ("Le beau", "Youre going to have to, if you stay here. This is the place theyre scheduled to wrestle, and theyre ready to go."), ("Celia", "Yes, I see them coming. Lets stay and watch."), ("Duke frederick", "Come on. Since the youth wont be reasoned with, hell have to suffer for his stubbornness."), ("Rosalind", "Is that the man?"), ("Le beau", "Thats him, madam."), ("Celia", "Alas, he is too young. Yet he seems capable."), ("Duke frederick", "Whats up, daughter and niece? Have you snuck over here to watch the wrestling?"), ("Rosalind", "Yes, my lord, if you give us permission."), ("Duke frederick", "You wont enjoy it much, I can tell you, the odds are so against this young man. Because hes so young, Ive tried to discourage him, but he wont listen. Talk to him, ladies. See if you can persuade him."), ("Celia", "Call him over here, good Monsieur Le Beau."), ("Duke frederick", "Go ahead. Ill make myself scarce."), ("Le beau", "Mister Challenger, the princess wants to speak to you."), ("Orlando", "Ill wait on them with all respect and duty."), ("Rosalind", "Young man, have you challenged Charles the Wrestler?"), ("Orlando", "No, lovely princess. He is the general challenger. I have only come inlike the others haveto try to fight him with the strength of my youth."), ("Celia", "Young gentleman, you are too bold for your age. You have seen the cruel proof of this mans strength. If you took a good look at yourself, or if you thought about this more carefully, your fear would teach you to act more cautiously. We beg you, for your own sake, to respect your safety and give up."), ("Rosalind", "Please, young sir. Well make sure your reputation isnt hurt; well take it upon ourselves to argue with the duke that the wrestling match should be called off."), ("Orlando", "I beg you not to think poorly of methough I suppose anyone who could deny anything to such beautiful women deserves to be scorned. But please, send me good thoughts in this match. If Im beaten, the shame is all mine, and I wasnt in anyones good graces to begin with. If Im killed, it will only be the death of a man who was willing to be dead. I wont wrong any of my friends, because I dont have any to mourn for me, and I wont have wronged the world, because I dont have anything in the world. In this world, Im only taking up space. If I leave, maybe someone more worthy will fill it."), ("Rosalind", "I wish I could give you the little strength that I have."), ("Celia", "Mine too, to join hers."), ("Rosalind", "Good luck. I hope to God Im wrong about your chances."), ("Celia", "I hope you get what you desire!"), ("Charles", "Come on, wheres the young show-offCharles is asking Who wants to be buried? as well as making a suggestive pun.show-off whos so eager to lie with mother earth?"), ("Orlando", "Ready, sir, but I have more modest ambitions."), ("Duke frederick", "You get only one round."), ("Charles", "No, Im sure your Grace wont be able to persuade him to try a second round, even though you couldnt dissuade him from trying the first."), ("Orlando", "You should mock me after youve beaten me, not before. Come on."), ("Rosalind", "HerculesHercules, a prominent figure in Greek and Roman mythology, was famous for his physical prow ess. Hercules give you speed, young man!"), ("Celia", "I wish I were invisible, so I could grab that strong fellow by the leg."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, what an excellent young man!"), ("Celia", "If I could shoot lightning bolts from my eyes, I can tell you whod be on the ground."), ("Duke frederick", "No more, no more."), ("Orlando", "Oh, come on, your GraceIm barely out of breath."), ("Duke frederick", "How are you doing, Charles?"), ("Le beau", "He cant speak, my lord."), ("Duke frederick", "Carry him away. What is your name, young man?"), ("Orlando", "Orlando, my lord, the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys."), ("Duke frederick", "I wish you were someone elses son. The whole world thought your father was an honorable man, but he was always my enemy. Your victory would have pleased me more if youd been someone elses son. But good luck; you are a brave young man. I wish you had told me you had a different father."), ("Celia", "If I were my father, cousin, would I do this?"), ("Orlando", "Im proud to be Sir Rowlands sonhis youngest sonand I would never change that, not even to be Fredericks adopted heir."), ("Rosalind", "My father loved Sir Rowland as much as he loved his own soul, and the rest of the world shared my fathers opinion. If I had known this young man was his son, I would have tried harder to convince him not to fight."), ("Celia", "Gentle cousin, lets go thank him and encourage him. My my fathers rude and envious behavior is like a knife through my heart. (to ORLANDO) Sir, you fought very well. If you live up to your potential in love as well, your wife will be a very happy woman."), ("Rosalind", "(giving him a chain from her neck) Gentleman, wear this for me. Im a woman whos down on her luck, and Id give more if I could. Shall we go, cousin?"), ("Celia", "Yes. Good luck, fair gentleman."), ("Orlando", "(to himself) Cant I even say thank you? I left my brain back on the wrestling field. Whats left of me is a dummy, just a lifeless block."), ("Rosalind", "Hes calling us back. My prideRosalind implies that he conquered her as well, in the sense that shes fallen in love with him.pride fell when my fortunes did; Ill ask him what he wants. Did you call us, sir? Sir, you wrestled well and conquered more than just your enemies."), ("Celia", "Will you come on, cousin?"), ("Rosalind", "Im coming. Farewell."), ("Orlando", "What is this passion that ties up my tongue? I cant speak to her, even though she asked me to. Oh, poor Orlando, youve been overthrown! Either Charles or some prettier thing has mastered you."), ("Le beau", "Good sir, as a friend, I advise you to leave this place. Although you deserve praise, applause, and love, right now the duke misconstrues everything youve done. The duke is temperamental. Im sure you can imagine what I mean without my having to spell it out."), ("Orlando", "Thank you, sir. Now please tell me this: which of the two ladies who were at the wrestling match is the dukes daughter?"), ("Le beau", "Neither one is his daughter, to judge from their good manners. But really, the smaller one is his daughter. The other is the daughter of the banished duke. Duke Frederick keeps her for his daughters sake; the love between the two of them is stronger than the bond between sisters. But I will tell you that lately the duke has been displeased with his niece, and for no other reason than that people praise her virtues and pity her for her fathers sake. I swear, one day the dukes malice toward Rosalind will suddenly erupt. Goodbye, sir. Later, in a better world than this, Id love to get to know you."), ("Orlando", "Im indebted to you. Goodbye. Out of the frying pan and into the firefrom a tyrant duke to a tyrant brother! But, oh, heavenly Rosalind!"), ("Celia", "Whats going on, Rosalind? Cupid have mercy! You wont utter a single word?"), ("Rosalind", "I dont even have one to throw at a dog."), ("Celia", "No, your words are too precious to be wasted on dogs. Throw some of your words at me. Come on, throw your words at me like you would throw stones at a dog."), ("Rosalind", "Then there would be two cousins lying sick in bed: one hurt by reasons and the other gone crazy without any."), ("Celia", "Is all of this about your father?"), ("Rosalind", "No, some of it is about my childs father. Oh, this working-dayWorking-day=wearisome.working-day world is full of thorns!"), ("Celia", "Theyre only burrs, cousin, thrown at you because you took a holiday from conventional behavior. If we walk on the well-worn paths, they wont get caught in our petticoats."), ("Rosalind", "Those burrs I could shake off my clothing, but these are in my heart."), ("Celia", "Cough them up."), ("Rosalind", "Id try it, if I could cry hem and have him."), ("Celia", "Come on, take control of your feelings."), ("Rosalind", "But theyre siding with a better wrestler than myself."), ("Celia", "Oh, thats a good wish! Youll fight with him eventually, and fallCelia means both that Rosalind will be defeated by her affections for Orlando and that she will fall to him sexually.fall. But lets put these jokes aside for a moment, and speak earnestly. Is it possible that you could have fallen in love with Orlando, Sir Rowlands youngest son, this suddenly?"), ("Rosalind", "The duke, my father, loved his father very much."), ("Celia", "Does that necessarily mean you should love his son? By that kind of logic, I should hate Orlando, since my father hates his father. But I dont hate Orlando."), ("Rosalind", "No, please dont hate himfor my sake."), ("Celia", "Why shouldnt I? Doesnt he deserve it?"), ("Rosalind", "Let me love him because he deserves it, and you can love him because I do. Look, here comes the duke."), ("Celia", "He looks angry."), ("Duke frederick", "Madam, hurry as fast as you can get out of my court."), ("Rosalind", "Me, uncle?"), ("Duke frederick", "You, niece. In ten days time, if youre found within twenty miles of the court, youll die for it."), ("Rosalind", "Please, your Grace, tell me what crime I have committed. If I know my own thoughts and desires, and Im not dreaming or crazywhich Im sure Im notthen, dear uncle, Ive never had so much as a half-formed thought that would have offended you."), ("Duke frederick", "All traitors protest like this. If they could purge their guilt simply by saying that they were innocent, theyd all be as innocent as God Himself. I dont trust you. Enough said."), ("Rosalind", "But your mistrust alone cant make me a traitoron what basis do you suspect me?"), ("Duke frederick", "You are your fathers daughter. Thats enough."), ("Rosalind", "I was his daughter when your Highness took my fathers dukedom. I was his daughter when you banished him. Treason is not inherited, my lord. But even if we did inherit it from our family, what does that have to do with me? My father wasnt a traitor. So, please, my lord, dont assume that Im treacherous just because Im poor, with no titles to my name."), ("Celia", "Dear master, listen to me."), ("Duke frederick", "Yes, Celia, we kept her here for your sake. Otherwise, she would have been banished with her father."), ("Celia", "At that time, I didnt beg you to keep her here; you wanted her here, and you felt guilty. I was too young at the time to appreciate her value, but now I know her. If shes a traitor, why then, so am I. We have always slept together, woken up together, learned, played, and eaten together. Wherever we went, we went together and inseparable."), ("Duke frederick", "Shes too devious for you. Her smoothness, her silence, and her patient suffering appeal to the people, and they pity her. Youre a fool. Shes robbing you of the attention you deserve. You will seem even brighter and more virtuous when shes out of the picture. So be quiet. The sentence Ive passed down on her is firm and unshakeable. She is banished."), ("Celia", "Then lay that sentence on me too, my lord. I cannot live without her."), ("Duke frederick", "You are a fool. You, niece, prepare to leave. On my honor and by my word, if you outstay the ten days, you will die."), ("Celia", "Oh, my poor Rosalind, where will you go? Do you want to exchange fathers? Ill give you mine. I insist, dont be more distressed than I am."), ("Rosalind", "I have more reason to be distressed."), ("Celia", "No you havent, cousin. Please, be cheerful. Dont you realize the duke has also banished me, his daughter?"), ("Rosalind", "No, he hasnt."), ("Celia", "Oh, he hasnt? Well, then, you dont have the affection that would teach you that you and I are one. Will we be separated? Should we part, sweet girl? No. Let my father find another heir. So, help me plan how well escape, where well go, and what well take with us. Dont even try to take this all upon yourself, bearing your grief alone and leaving me out. I swear by the heavens, which have grown pale in sympathy with us, Im going with you, whatever you say."), ("Rosalind", "But where will we go?"), ("Celia", "To the Forest of Arden, to find your father."), ("Rosalind", "But what danger well put ourselves in, two young, innocent women traveling so far! Fresh beauty attracts thugs and thieves even more than money."), ("Celia", "Ill put on some poor and ragged clothes and smudge my face with dirt. You do the same, and well be able to travel without attracting any attackers' attention."), ("Rosalind", "Wouldnt it be bettersince Im unusually tall for a womanto dress myself like a man? Ill wear a big sword in my belt, carry a boar-spear in my hand, and hide all my womanish fear in my heart. Well maintain a swaggering, warrior look, like so many cowardly men, whose manner has nothing to do with what theyre feeling."), ("Celia", "What should I call you when youre a man?"), ("Rosalind", "Ill take no lesser name than that of JovesIn Classical mythology, Jove, king of the gods, fell in love with the mortal boy Ganymede and carried him to Mt. Olympus to be his cup bearer. Joves own servant. So call me Ganymede. And what will you be called?"), ("Celia", "Something that refers to my current state. Instead of Celia, call me Aliena."), ("Rosalind", "Cousin, what if we brought that clownish fool of your fathers court, Touchstone? Wouldnt he be a comfort to us in our travels?"), ("Celia", "Hed walk the whole wide world with me. Leave me alone to go convince him. Lets go gather our jewels and money. Well figure out the best time and safest route to avoid being found out by my fathers guards, whom hell send out as soon as he discovers Ive gone. Now, we go contentedly to freedomnot banishment."), ("Duke senior", "Now, my companions and brothers in exile, hasnt experience made this simple life sweeter than a life of glittery pomp and circumstance? Arent these woods less perilous than the court, with all its jealousies and intrigues? Out here we feel the changing of the seasons, but were not bothered by it. When the icy fangs of the brutal, scolding wind bite and blow on my body, even though Im shivering with cold, I can appreciate the weathers honesty. I smile and think, Thank goodness the wind doesnt flatter me: its like a councilor who makes me feel what Im really made of. Adversity can have its benefitslike the ugly, poisonous toadToads were thought to be poisonous, and to each have a jewel embedded in its forehead.toad that wears a precious jewel in its forehead. In this life, far away from the civilized world, we can hear the language of the trees, read the books of the running streams, hear sermons in the stones, and discover the good in every single thing."), ("Amiens", "I wouldnt change my situation for anything. Youre lucky, my lord, to be able to see the peace and sweetness even in what bad luck has brought you."), ("Duke senior", "Come, shall we hunt some deer for dinner? It bothers me, though, that these poor spotted innocents, who, after all, are this deserted citys native citizens, should be gouged with arrows."), ("First lord", "Indeed, my lord, the gloomy Jaques grieves over these deaths. He swears that when you kill the deer, youre a worse usurper than your brother was for banishing you. Today, Lord Amiens and I followed Jaques. We saw him lie down along a brook under an oak tree whose ancient roots peeked out from the earth. A poor, lonely stag who had been hurt by a hunters arrow came to rest there, where he heaved such heavy groans that the effort seemed to stretch his hide to bursting. Big, round tears ran piteously down the animals innocent nose. The hairy fool, watched closely by sad Jaques, stood on the very edge of the brook, adding his own tears to the streaming water."), ("Duke senior", "And what did Jaques say? Didnt he take the opportunity to draw a moral from the scene?"), ("First lord", "Oh, yes, he created a thousand comparisons. First, he spoke of the deers needless addition to the streams water supply. Poor deer, he said, youre just like a human: you add more to what already has too much. Then, about the deers being alone, abandoned by his velvety companions: Its appropriate, he said, that a miserable creature should excuse itself from company. Just then, a carefree herd of deer, having just eaten their fill of pasture grass, bounded along without stopping to greet their wounded brother. Sure, said Jaques, hurry on, you fat and greasy citizens. Why stop and notice this poor, broken, bankrupt creature here? In this way, he most insightfully pierced to the heart of the country, the city, the court, and even our lives out here in the forest, swearing that we are mere usurpers and tyrants, frightening and killing animals in their own homes."), ("Duke senior", "And did you leave him like this?"), ("Second lord", "We did, my lord, weeping and carrying on about the sobbing deer."), ("Duke senior", "Take me to him. I love to argue with him when hes having one of these fits, because then he always has a lot to say."), ("First lord", "Ill bring you to him right away."), ("Duke frederick", "Can it be possible that no one saw them leave? It cannot be. Some villains in my court must have known about this and let it happen."), ("First lord", "I cant find anyone who saw her leave. Her ladies-in-waiting saw her go to bed, and early this morning the bed was empty."), ("Second lord", "My lord, that dirty clown whom you laughed at so often is also missing. Hisperia, the princesss gentlewoman, confesses that she overheard your daughter and her cousin praising the good looks and skills of the wrestler who recently beat the muscular Charles. Hisperia believes that, wherever they have gone, that young man is likely with them."), ("Duke frederick", "Send a message to his brother. Bring that swinger Orlando here. If hes not around, bring his brother Oliver to me. Ill make Oliver find him. Do this immediately, and dont stop searching and interrogating until youve brought home these foolish runaways."), ("Orlando", "Whos there?"), ("Adam", "My young master! Oh, my gentle master! My sweet master! Oh, you living memory of old Sir Rowland! What are you doing here? Why are you so strong and good? Why do people love you? And why are you noble, strong, and brave? Why would you be so foolish as to beat the moody dukes favorite champion? Your praise has beaten you home. Dont you know, master, that some mens best qualities do them in? Yours are like thatcomplete and utter traitors to you. Oh, what a world this is, when even what is beautiful in a man poisons him!"), ("Orlando", "Why, whats the matter?"), ("Adam", "Oh, unlucky boy! Dont walk through these doors. In this house lives a man who despises all that is good in you. Oliver, your brotherno, not your brother; and yet hes the sonbut no, I wont call him the sonof that great man I was about to call his father, has heard about how well you did in the wrestling match, and tonight hes planning on burning your house down, with you in it. And if he fails at that, he will find other ways to kill you. I overheard him and his plans. This is no place for you; this home is now a slaughterhouse. Hate it, fear it, do not come inside."), ("Orlando", "Then where would you have me go, Adam?"), ("Adam", "It doesnt matter where, so long as its not here."), ("Orlando", "What, would you have me beg for my food? Or become a lowlife, sticking up travelers on the road? This is all thats left for me to do, but I wont do it. Id rather give myself up to the hatred of a violent brother who refuses to recognize that we are brothers."), ("Adam", "But dont do that. I have five-hundred gold coins, which I carefully saved when I was working for your late father. I meant to use it for my retirement, to help me when my old body was lame and forgotten in some dark corner. But take the money, and God, who feeds even the raven and looks after even the sparrow, will comfort me in my old age. Here is the gold, I give it all to you. Let me be your servant. I know I may be old, but Im strong and healthy, because in my youth I never drank nor lived recklessly. Therefore, my old age is like a blustery winter: cold, but kindly. Let me go with you. Ill do everything a younger man could do for you."), ("Orlando", "Oh, good old man, youre a great example of that old work ethic, where people worked because it was their duty, not just for the money. Your approach isnt the fashion these days, when no one works hard except for a promotion, and, as soon as theyve got it, they stop working. But in working for me, old man, you are pruning a rotten tree: despite all your pains and efforts, it wont yield a single blossom. Come along, though. Well go together, and before weve spent all the savings of your youth, well find a way to make a living."), ("Adam", "Go on, master, and I will follow youwith truth and loyalty to my last breath. From the time I was seventeen, over sixty years ago, I have lived in this house, but now I will live here no more. Many men seek their fortune at seventeen; at eighty, its a bit late. But fortune could not reward me better than to let me die well, without owing my master anything."), ("Rosalind", "Oh Lord, my spirits are tired!"), ("Touchstone", "I wouldnt care about my spirits, if my legs werent tired."), ("Rosalind", "Id insult my manly wardrobe by weeping like a woman if I didnt have to comfort the weaker vessel here, as the jacket and hoseDoublet (jacket) and hose (heavy, pants-length stockings) were traditional mens clothing.jacket and hose ought to be brave for the sake of the petticoat. So, have courage, good Aliena."), ("Celia", "Please bear with me. I cant go any further."), ("Touchstone", "Id rather bear with you than bearBy bear you, Touchstone means carry you.bear you. But if I did carry you, it would be no crossElizabethan coins had crosses stamped on them.cross to bear, because Im pretty sure you dont have any money."), ("Rosalind", "Well, this is the Forest of Arden."), ("Touchstone", "Yes, now Im in Arden, and that makes me the bigger fool. When I was at home, I was in a better place. But travelers have to be content."), ("Rosalind", "Yes, be content, good Touchstone. Look whos coming: a young man and an old man, having a serious talk."), ("Corin", "What youre doing is the way to make her scorn you continually."), ("Silvius", "Oh, Corin, I wish you could understand how much I love her!"), ("Corin", "Im sure I can guess. I have been in love too, you know."), ("Silvius", "No Corin, since youre old, you cannot guesseven if you were as dedicated a lover in your youth as there ever was, sighing and mooning all night long. If your love was anything like mineand Im sure that no man has loved as I love nowexactly how many ridiculous actions did your fantasizing lead you to?"), ("Corin", "Oh, a thousand of them, all of which Ive forgotten."), ("Silvius", "Oh, then you never loved as wholeheartedly as me. If you cant remember the stupidest little thing love made you do, you havent loved. Or if you havent sat as I do now, boring your listener with all your lovers virtues, then you havent loved. Or if you havent broken away from human company, as my feelings now lead me to do, you havent loved. O Phoebe, Phoebe, Phoebe!"), ("Rosalind", "Oh, poor shepherd! Listening to you speak of your wounded heart reminds me of my own pain."), ("Touchstone", "Me too. I remember when I was in love, I broke my sword on a stone, and told him to take that for coming at night to see Jane Smile. I remember kissing her washing stick and the cows udders that her pretty, chapped hands had milked. I remember wooing a pea plant in her name, and then taking two pea pods and begging her to wear them for my sake. Those of us who are really in love will do the strangest things. But everything that lives is mortal, including the foolishness of love."), ("Rosalind", "You speak more wisely than you know."), ("Touchstone", "Nah, Ill never be aware of my own wit, until I break my shins on it."), ("Rosalind", "By God! This shepherds condition is like my own."), ("Touchstone", "And like mine, but Im getting a little tired of it."), ("Celia", "Please, one of you go ask that man over there if we can buy some food off him. Im faint with hunger."), ("Touchstone", "(to CORIN) Hey, clown!"), ("Rosalind", "Shut up, fool. Hes not your relative."), ("Corin", "Whos calling?"), ("Touchstone", "Your superiors."), ("Corin", "If they werent my betters, theyd be pretty wretched indeed."), ("Rosalind", "(to TOUCHSTONE) Stop it, I say. Good evening to you, friend."), ("Corin", "Good evening to you, too, noble sir, and to all of you."), ("Rosalind", "Please sir, if love or money can buy anything in this empty place, tell us where we can rest and feed ourselves. Well pay you for the information. We have a young woman here who is very tired from traveling and faint with hunger."), ("Corin", "Dear sir, I pity the lady and wishmore for her sake than my ownthat I was more able to help her. But Im a hired hand: I dont profit from the flocks I tend. My master is a brutish man and doesnt care much if he gets to heaven by deeds of hospitality or not. Besides, his cottage, his flocks, and his grazing rights are on sale now, and since hes not there, theres nothing to eat at our house. But lets see whats on hand. If I have anything to say about it, you will be most welcome there."), ("Rosalind", "Who wants to buy the flock and the pasture?"), ("Corin", "That young man who was just here. But he doesnt really care about buying anything."), ("Rosalind", "Please, if you can do it without taking advantage of the young man, buy the cottage, pasture, and flock for us, and well pay you for it."), ("Celia", "And we will raise your wages. I like this place. I could see myself wasting time here."), ("Corin", "The thing is definitely going to be sold. Come with me. If you like what you see of the land, the profit thats possible, and this rustic life, Ill be your faithful servant, and buy the place with your gold right away."), ("Amiens", "(singing) Whoever wants to lie with me, Under the greenwood tree, And turn his merry song To follow the sweet birds singing, Come here, come here, come here. Here you will find No enemy Besides winter and rough weather."), ("Jaques", "More, more, please, more."), ("Amiens", "Its only going to make you sad, Monsieur Jaques."), ("Jaques", "Im glad about that. More, please, more. I can suck sadness out of a song the way a weasel sucks eggs. More, please, more."), ("Amiens", "My voice is ragged. I know I wont please you."), ("Jaques", "I dont want you to please me, I want you to sing. Come on, another stanzais that what you call 'em, stanzas?"), ("Amiens", "Call them whatever you want, Monsieur Jaques."), ("Jaques", "Nah, I dont care what their namesBy names, Jaques is thinking of the signatures on I. O. U notes, in which the name legally requires that the debt be honored.names are; they owe me nothing. Will you sing?"), ("Amiens", "Okay, but only because you want me to."), ("Jaques", "Well then, if Ive ever thanked a man, Ill thank you now. But two men complimenting each other is like two baboons getting together. Whenever a man compliments me, I feel like hes a beggar and I just gave him a pennyan embarrassing exchange. Come on, singand those of you who wont sing, shut up."), ("Amiens", "Well, Ill finish the song I started. Meanwhile, sirs, set the table. The duke will drink under this tree. Hes been looking for you all day, you know."), ("Jaques", "And Ive been avoiding him all day. Hes too argumentative for me. I think of as many things as he does, but I just thank heaven and dont show off about it. Come, warble for me."), ("Everyone", "(singing) Whoever shuns ambition And loves to live in the sun, Hunting the food he eats Pleased with what he finds, Come here, come here, come here. Here he will findNo enemy But winter and rough weather."), ("Jaques", "I wrote a verse to this tune, though its not very imaginative. Ill give it you."), ("Amiens", "And Ill sing it. (taking a paper fromJAQUES) It goes like this: (sings) If it should come to pass That any man turns into an ass And leaves his wealth and ease Simply to please his stubborn will Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame. Here he will see Fools as stupid as he If he will only come to me."), ("Amiens", "Whats that word ducdame? The actual meaning of ducdame is heavily debated. Jaquess answer seems to be mainly a jab at the noblemen who have followed Duke Senior into the woods.ducdame?"), ("Jaques", "Its a Greek invocation, calling fools into a circle. Im going to take a nap, if I canif I cant, Ill curse all the first-born children of Egypt."), ("Amiens", "And Ill go find the duke; his banquet is ready."), ("Adam", "Dear master, I cant go any farther. Oh, Im dying of hunger. Ill lie down here and measure out my grave. Farewell, kind master."), ("Orlando", "Hey, whats this, Adam? No braver than this? Live a little, be comforted a little, cheer up a little. If I can find any animal in this wild forest, Ill either be food for it or bring it as food for you. Youre not as close to death as you think you are. For my sake, make yourself comfortable; keep death at arms length for a while. Ill be back soon, and if I havent brought you anything to eat, I will give you permission to die. But if you die before I return, youll have made a mockery of my efforts. There we go! You look happier already, and Ill be back quickly. But youre lying out in the cold. Come, Ill carry you to shelter. And you wont die for lack of dinner, if theres anything at all to eat in this desert-like forest. Cheer up, good Adam."), ("Duke senior", "I think he must have turned into an animal, because I cant find him anywhere looking like a man."), ("First lord", "My lord, he just left here. He was happy here, listening to a song."), ("Duke senior", "If that man, whos made up of conflicts, becomes musical, then there must be something wrong with the universe. Go find him. Tell him I want to speak with him."), ("First lord", "He saved me the trouble: here he comes."), ("Duke senior", "Well, whats going on, mister? What kind of life do you lead that your poor friends must beg for your company? What, you look amused."), ("Jaques", "A fool, a fool! I met a foolFools were conventionally distin guished by their motley (multi-colored) costumefool in the forest, wearing motley. What a miserable world! As sure as I eat to stay alive, I met a fool who was lying in the sun and complaining about his fortune. He spoke smartly, though he was a fool. Good morning, fool, I said. No, sir, he said, dont call me a fool until heaven has sent me my fortuneFortune is supposed to favor fools.fortune. Then he pulled a watch from his bag and, looking at it solemnly, said, Its ten o'clock. This way, we can see how the world moves. Only an hour ago it was nine, and in another hour it will be eleven. And so, from hour to hour we ripen, and from hour to hour we rot. And theres a story behind that. When I heard that motley fool moralizing on the subject of time, I began to crow like a rooster. Hearing a fool speaking so contemplatively made me laugh non-stop for an hour. Oh, noble fool! A worthy fool! Motley is the only thing to wear."), ("Duke senior", "Who is this fool?"), ("Jaques", "A worthy fool! Hes been a courtier and says, If ladies are young and pretty, they always know it. His brainIn Shakespeares time, people thought different brains, with different amounts of moisture, processed information differently. A dry brain took a long time to be impressed by informationbrain is dry as a sailors biscuit and crammed with all sorts of strange observations, which he presents in mangled fashion. Oh, I wish I were a fool! Im ambitious for one of those motley coats."), ("Duke senior", "You shall have one."), ("Jaques", "Thats all I ask from you, as long as you promise to rid yourself of any rotten idea that I am wise. Like the wind, I must have the freedom to blast anyone I please, as fools do. And whoever is most irritated by my foolishness has to laugh the hardest. Why, sir, must he? Well, its as plain as the beaten path to a parish church. Any person who thinks Im satirizing them would be stupid if they didnt pretend not to be hurt by my joke. Otherwise, theyd be admitting I was talking about them, and the fool would expose the wise mans foolishness with a joke that wasnt even meant for him. Dress me up in motley. Let me speak my mind, and Ill rid the world of its sicknessif it will only tolerate my medicine."), ("Duke senior", "To hell with you! I know what youd do."), ("Jaques", "What would I do besides good?"), ("Duke senior", "You would be committing a wicked sin by chiding other people for sinning, because you yourself have been a terrible sinner, as carnal in your appetites as lust itself, and all the swollen pustules of sin that you acquired in your freedom you now want to burst and shoot back into the world at large."), ("Jaques", "But if I cry out against pride in general, how can anyone say Im accusing a particular person? Arent we talking about a problem as vast as the sea, that keeps flowing until all the wealth in the world is almost used up by everyone showing off? What woman in the city am I talking about when I say that the clothes on a city-womans unworthy back are rich enough to suit a prince? Who can say I mean just her when all her neighbors are exactly like her? And when some lowlife protests that his fancy clothes arent my problem, isnt he basically admitting that Im talking about him? Well, then. Tell me how Ive wronged him. If I was right about him, hes the one whos done wrong. If he isnt guilty of the faults Im talking about, well then, my accusations fly by like wild geese, whom no one owns, since they dont apply to any man. But who is this?"), ("Orlando", "Stop, and eat no more."), ("Jaques", "But I havent eaten anything yet."), ("Orlando", "And you wont until the needy eat."), ("Jaques", "What kind of fighting cock is this?"), ("Duke senior", "Are you acting so boldly from hardship or because you despise good manners? Why do you seem so lacking in civility?"), ("Orlando", "You were right the first time. My piercing distress has stripped me of smooth manners. But I wasnt raised in the forest, and I was somewhat well-bred. But stop, I say. Whoever eats this fruit before Ive been taken care of dies."), ("Jaques", "If you wont listen to reason, Ill have to die."), ("Duke senior", "What would you like? Gentlemanly manners have more sway around here than force does."), ("Orlando", "Im dying for food, so let me have some."), ("Duke senior", "Sit down and eat, and welcome to our table."), ("Orlando", "Do you really speak like such a gentleman? I beg your pardon. I thought everything out here was wild, which is why I acted so stern and commanding. But whoever you areyou who sit in the dark shade, losing track of time in this remote forestif you have ever seen better days or been to church or sat at a mans table for a feast or wiped a tear from your eye, if you know what it is to pity and be pitied, let my kindness and nobility persuade you. With that hope, Ill blush at my rudeness and put away my sword."), ("Duke senior", "We have in fact seen better days and been summoned to church by the ringing of the holy bell and sat at good mens feasts and cried tears of pitytherefore, sit down and take whatever will satisfy your needs."), ("Orlando", "Then please, put off your eating for a little while I, like a mother doe, find my fawn and bring it food. There is a poor old man who, purely out of love, has limped after me for miles. Hes burdened by two debilitating evilsage and hunger. Until hes fed, I wont eat a thing."), ("Duke senior", "Go find him. We wont touch a thing till you return."), ("Orlando", "Thank you, and God bless you for your hospitality."), ("Duke senior", "You see, were not alone in our unhappiness. This wide, universal theater has more sad plays than our own little scene."), ("Jaques", "The whole world is a stage, and all the men and women merely actors. They have their exits and their entrances, and in his lifetime a man will play many parts, his life separated into seven acts. In the first act he is an infant, whimpering and puking in his nurses arms. Then hes the whining schoolboy, with a book bag and a bright, young face, creeping like a snail unwillingly to school. Then he becomes a lover, huffing and puffing like a furnace as he writes sad poems about his mistresss eyebrows. In the fourth act, hes a soldier, full of foreign curses, with a beard like a panther, eager to defend his honor and quick to fight. On the battlefield, he puts himself in front of the cannons mouth, risking his life to seek fame that is as fleeting as a soap bubble. In the fifth act, he is a judge, with a nice fat belly from all the bribes hes taken. His eyes are stern, and hes given his beard a respectable cut. Hes full of wise sayings and up-to-the-minute anecdotes: thats the way he plays his part. In the sixth act, the curtain rises on a skinny old man in slippers, glasses on his nose and a money bag at his side. The stockings he wore in his youth hang loosely on his shriveled legs now, and his bellowing voice has shrunk back down to a childish squeak. In the last scene of our playthe end of this strange, eventful historyour hero, full of forgetfulness, enters his second childhood: without teeth, without eyes, without taste, without everything."), ("Duke senior", "Welcome. Set the honorable old man down and let him eat."), ("Orlando", "I thank you very much on his behalf."), ("Adam", "You had better do that. I can barely speak to thank you myself."), ("Duke senior", "Welcome. Eat. I wont trouble you yet with questions about your situation. Some music, please, and, good friend, sing."), ("Amiens", "(singing) Blow, blow, winter wind. You arent as harsh As mens ingratitude. Your teeth arent as sharp, As you are invisible, Even though your breath is an assault. Heigh-ho! Sing, heigh-ho! Sing to the green holly. Most friendship is false, most love simply foolishness. Then heigh-ho, to the holly. This life is really jolly. Freeze, freeze, you bitter sky, Your bite isnt as painful As when good deeds are forgotten. Even though you can freeze water Your sting is not as sharp As the friend who is forgotten. Heigh-ho! Sing, heigh-ho! Sing to the green holly. Most friendship is false, most love simply foolishness. Then heigh-ho, to the holly. This life is really jolly."), ("Duke senior", "If you really are Sir Rowlands son, as youve just whispered to meand I can absolutely see the likeness in your face you are truly welcome here. I am the duke who loved your father. Come to my cave and tell me the rest of your story. Good old man, you are as welcome here as your master is. Give him your arm. Give me your hand, and explain your situation to me."), ("Duke frederick", "You havent seen him since? Sir, sir, that cant be true. If I werent a merciful man, Id forget about your missing brother and punish you in his place. But do this: find your brother, wherever he is. Bring him here dead or alive within the next year, or get out off my land. Im seizing your lands and all that you possess until your brother gives testimony that absolves you of any guilt."), ("Oliver", "I wish your Highness knew my true feelings in this matter: I have never in my life loved my brother."), ("Duke frederick", "That makes you an even bigger villain. Well, throw him out, and have my officers seize his house and lands. Do this immediately, and send him packing."), ("Orlando", "Hang there on this tree, you lines of poetry, and bear witness to my love. And you, goddess of the moonDianain Greek and Roman mythology, goddess of the moon and the huntwas the patron of virgin maidens like Rosalind.goddess of the moon, queen of the nightwith your chaste eye, from your pale home up abovewatch your huntress, who has the power to control my life. Oh, Rosalind, these trees will be my booksIll write my thoughts down on their bark. That way, everyone who passes through this forest will find your virtues everywhere. Run, run, Orlando, on every tree carve praises of her beauty, her virtue, and her inexpressibility."), ("Corin", "And how are you liking the shepherds life, Master Touchstone?"), ("Touchstone", "Well, in and of itself, it is a good life, but given that its a shepherds life, its worthless. In the fact that its solitary, I enjoy it very much; but in the sense that its private, its terrible. Now, Im very pleased with it being outdoors, but in its not being at the court, it is boring. Being a simple life, it suits me very well, but being a life without plenty, it doesnt suit me at all. Are you any kind of philosopher yourself, shepherd?"), ("Corin", "Only in that I know that the sicker one gets, the worse one feels, and that the man who lacks money, employment, and happiness is without three good friends. I know that rain makes things wet and fire burns things. I know that a good pasture makes sheep fat, that the main cause of night is the absence of sun, and that the man who isnt smart by nature and hasnt learned anything from his schooling will complain of his lack of good manners, or he comes from very dull parents indeed."), ("Touchstone", "Youre a natural-born philosopher! Were you ever at court, shepherd?"), ("Corin", "Honestly, no."), ("Touchstone", "Then you are damned."), ("Corin", "I hope not."), ("Touchstone", "Yep, youre damned like a roasted egg:Eggs were roasted in ashes and had to be rotated frequently to avoid burning.egg: all on one side."), ("Corin", "Im damned for not having been at court? Explain."), ("Touchstone", "Well, if you were never at court, you were never exposed to good manners; if you never witnessed good manners, your manners must be wicked; wickedness is a sin, and committing sins leads to damnation. You are in a perilous state, shepherd."), ("Corin", "Not at all, Touchstone. The good manners of the court look as silly in the country as country behavior is laughable at the court. You told me that you dont salute at the court but kiss hands. Now, if courtiers were shepherds, that kind of courtesy would be unclean."), ("Touchstone", "Give a quick example. Come, explain."), ("Corin", "Why, because were always handling our ewes, and their fleece, as you know, is greasy."), ("Touchstone", "What, dont courtiers' hands sweat? And isnt a sheeps grease as wholesome as a mans sweat? Thats a poor example. A better examplecome on."), ("Corin", "Besides, our hands are hard and calloused."), ("Touchstone", "Then your lips will feel them more quickly. Shallow thinking, yet again. Come on."), ("Corin", "Our hands are often covered in tar, from performing surgery on our sheepSheep wounds were treated with tar.sheep. Would you have us country folks kiss each others tarred hands? Courtiers' hands are perfumed."), ("Touchstone", "You shallow thinker! You worthless man! You are about as much of a thinker as worms meat is a nice steak. Learn from the wise, and comprehend: the courtiers perfume is made from cat dischargemuch more disgusting than tar. Fix your example, shepherd."), ("Corin", "Your wit is too courtly for me. Ill rest now."), ("Touchstone", "Youre going to rest while youre still damned? God help you, foolish man. Pray God does some surgery on you: you need to be fixed."), ("Corin", "Sir, Im a true, simple laborer: I earn what I eat, get what I wear, hate no man, envy no mans happiness, am happy for other mens good fortune and satisfied with my own bad fortune, and the source of my greatest pride is watching my ewes graze and my lambs feed."), ("Touchstone", "Thats another sin arising from your ignorance: you bring ewes and rams together and make your living by their copulation. You act as a pimp to a young ewe by forcing her to have sex with a crooked-headed, horny old rama totally unreasonable match. If youre not damned for that, then the devil must be keeping shepherds out of hell; I cant see how else you can hope to escape."), ("Corin", "Here comes young Mr. Ganymede, my new mistresss brother."), ("Rosalind", "(reading, as Ganymede) From the far east to the west Indies There is no jewel like Rosalind. Her worth is carried on the wind And it blows throughout the world, carrying the name of Rosalind. All the most beautiful paintings Are black when compared to Rosalind. Dont think of any beauty But the beauty of Rosalind."), ("Touchstone", "I could rhyme like that for eight years in a row, excepting meal times and sleeping hours. That awful, plodding rhyme sounded like a row of dairy women stomping off to market."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, stop, fool."), ("Touchstone", "Let me try: If theres a buck who needs a doe Tell him Rosalind will do. A cat in heat will look for a mate, And Rosalind certainly will too. Winter garments need to be filled with something, And so does skinny Rosalind. After you harvest, you have to sheaf and bind So throw ripe Rosalind on the harvest cart. The sweetest nut has the sourest rind And Rosalind is that kind of nut. The man who finds the sweetest rose Will be pricked by it, and by Rosalind. This is exactly the false way that verses gallop along. Why bother with them?"), ("Rosalind", "Quiet, you stupid fool. I found them on a tree."), ("Touchstone", "Well, the tree bears rotten fruit."), ("Rosalind", "Ill graft you onto that tree, and when I do Ill be grafting onto it a medlarIn other words, Touchstone will be rotten, or decomposing in his grave, before hes ripe, or wise. Medlar fruits were eaten when they were rotten.medlar. The fruit the tree bears will be the earliest to ripen in the country because, God knows, youll be rotten before youre half-ripe, which is how medlars are."), ("Touchstone", "All right, youve had your say, but well let the forest judge whether or not you spoke wisely."), ("Rosalind", "Quiet! Here comes my cousin, reading something; step aside."), ("Celia", "(reading, as Aliena) Why should this place be a desert Just because there are no people in it? No, Ill hang these poems on every tree, And they will voice the thoughts of a city. Some will be about how mans brief life is spent in wandering, his entire life contained in the width of an open hand. Some poems will be about betrayals Committed by friends. But on the prettiest branches Or at the end of every sentence Ill write Rosalinda, Teaching everyone who can read that the essence of every spirit Is contained in this one woman. Heaven commanded Nature To fill her one body With all the graces that women contain. Nature took Helens beautifulHelen, Cleopatra, Atalanta, and Lucretia are beautiful women featured in Greek and Roman mythology.beautiful face, but not her fickle heart; Cleopatras majesty, The best of Atalanta, And unhappy Lucretias modesty. So, by heavens decree, Rosalind Was composed Of different faces, eyes, and hearts, so that she might have the most prized touches of all. Heaven wanted Rosalind to have these gifts And me to live and die as her slave."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, Lordwhat tedious sayings about love have you been wearing out your congregation with? Shouldnt you have warned, Be patient, good people?"), ("Celia", "What are you saying? Shoo, Shepherd, go a little ways away. Go with him, Touchstone."), ("Touchstone", "Come on, shepherd, lets make an honorable retreat, though not with all the trappings of a full army; just with a shepherds pouch and the stuff he puts in it."), ("Celia", "Were you listening to these verses?"), ("Rosalind", "Oh yes, I heard them all, and more, too. Some of those lines had more feet than the versesEach verse of poetry is supposed to have only a certain number of feet, or accented syllables. Bad poets, like Orlando, cram their lines with too many words.verses could bear."), ("Celia", "Thats not a problem: the feet can bear the verses."), ("Rosalind", "Sure, but these feet were lameRosalind is making fun of the poor quality of Orlandos poetry.lame, and couldnt have stood up without the support of the verses. They stood lamely in the verse."), ("Celia", "But did you listen to all that poetry without even wondering about what your name is doing on all these trees?"), ("Rosalind", "I was working through my wonder when you arrived. Look at what I found on a palm tree. I havent been rhymed about like this since my past life, when I was an Irish ratIn Ireland, poets aimed satirical verses at their enemies. Supposedly, they killed rats by rhyming them to death. Irish rat, but I can hardly remember that."), ("Celia", "Do you know who wrote these?"), ("Rosalind", "Was it a man?"), ("Celia", "And he had a chain that once belonged to you hanging around his neck. Are you blushing?"), ("Rosalind", "Please, who?"), ("Celia", "Oh God, God! Its difficult to bring two friends together, but even mountains can be moved together by earthquakes."), ("Rosalind", "No, who are you talking about?"), ("Celia", "Is it possible?"), ("Rosalind", "No, Im begging you now, tell me who it is."), ("Celia", "Oh, this is wonderful, wonderfuljust wonderful wonderful! And another wonderful, and beyond-my-ability-to-express wonderful!"), ("Rosalind", "Good grief, do you think that just because Im dressed like a man, I have a mans patience? Every second you delay is as long and dull as a journey to South Seas. Im begging you, tell me who it is quickly, and speak fast. I wish you could just stammer this hidden man out of your mouth like wine out of a narrow-necked bottle: either too much at once or none at all. Im begging you, take the cork out of your mouth so I can drink the news."), ("Celia", "So you want to put a man in your belly."), ("Rosalind", "Did God make him? I mean, what sort of man is he? Is he enough of a man to wear a hat and grow a beard ?"), ("Celia", "No, he has only a little beard."), ("Rosalind", "Well, eventually God will send him some more hair, if he thanks Him. Ill wait till his beard grows in, if youll just hurry up and tell me what chin that beard is on."), ("Celia", "Its Orlando, who triumphed over both the wrestler and you in the same instant."), ("Rosalind", "Damn you for mocking me. Speak seriously and honestly."), ("Celia", "Really, cousin, its him."), ("Rosalind", "Orlando?"), ("Celia", "Orlando."), ("Rosalind", "Oh no! What am I going to do in my mans clothing? What did he do when you saw him? What did he say? How did he look? Where did he go? What brings him here? Did he ask about me? Where is he staying? How did he say good-bye? And when will you see him again? Answer me in a word."), ("Celia", "Youd better get me GargantuasIn a word means quickly, but Celia teasingly takes Rosalind literallyin one word. Gargantua was a giant with an enormous appetite for food and drink featured in Gargantua and Pantagruel, by the late-medieval writer Rabelais. Gargantuasmouth first. The words too big for any mouth nowadays. Answering yes and no to all those questions would be harder than answering a catechismA catechism is a summary of a religious doctrine, often in the form of questions and answers.catechism."), ("Rosalind", "But does he know that Im here in the forest and dressed in mens clothing? Does he look as bright and handsome as the day we saw him wrestling?"), ("Celia", "Its easier to count specks than to answer a lovers millions of questions. But taste my story, and relish it by paying attention. I found Orlando under a tree, like a dropped acorn."), ("Rosalind", "That tree could be called Gods tree, since it drops such wonderful fruit."), ("Celia", "Let me talk, good lady."), ("Rosalind", "Go on."), ("Celia", "He lay there, stretched out like a wounded knight."), ("Rosalind", "Though that must have been a pitiful sight, the ground looked beautiful."), ("Celia", "Cry, whoa! to your tongue, please. Its leaping about like a frisky horse. He was dressed like a hunter."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, thats ominous! He has come to kill my heart."), ("Celia", "Id like to sing my song solo. Youre making me go off-key."), ("Rosalind", "Dont you know that Im a woman? Whatever I think, I have to say. Sweetheart, go on."), ("Celia", "Youve made me lose the tune. Quiet! Isnt that him heading this way?"), ("Rosalind", "Thats him. Lets slink off, and watch him from a hiding place."), ("Jaques", "Thanks for your company but, really, I would have preferred being alone."), ("Orlando", "Me too, but still, for the sake of good manners, Ill say thanks for your company."), ("Jaques", "Goodbye. Lets meet as little as we can."), ("Orlando", "I also hope that we can be better strangers."), ("Jaques", "Please dont ruin any more trees by carving love poems on their barks."), ("Orlando", "Please dont ruin any more of my poems by reading them so badly."), ("Jaques", "Your loves name is Rosalind?"), ("Orlando", "Yes, thats it."), ("Jaques", "I dont like her name."), ("Orlando", "They werent looking to please you when they christened her."), ("Jaques", "How tall is she?"), ("Orlando", "Just as tall as my heart."), ("Jaques", "Youre sure full of smooth answers. Are you friendly with goldsmiths' wives, and memorized your little speeches off of their rings? Gold rings were of ten inscribed with lines from trite love poems.rings?"), ("Orlando", "No, but I can answer you just like those painted clothsPainted cloths were sometimes hung in place of tapestries and featured trite, moralistic sayings.painted cloths, where I suppose you memorized all your questions."), ("Jaques", "You have a quick wit; I think it must be made out of AtalantasThe mythical Atalanta was a very fast runner. Atalantas heels. Why dont you sit down with me? The two of us can complain about our mistressthe worldand all our miseries."), ("Orlando", "I wont blame anyone in this world but myself, whose faults Im most familiar with."), ("Jaques", "Your worst fault is being in love."), ("Orlando", "Well, its a fault I wouldnt trade for your best virtue. Im tired of you."), ("Jaques", "Well, I was looking for a fool when I found you, so I suppose I shouldnt be surprised."), ("Orlando", "Hes drowned in the brook: look in, and youll see him."), ("Jaques", "There Ill see only myself."), ("Orlando", "Which is either a fool or a nothing."), ("Jaques", "Im not going to waste any more time with you. Goodbye, good Mr. Love."), ("Orlando", "Im glad to see you go. Adieu, good Mr. Depression."), ("Rosalind", "(speaking so that only CELIA can hear) Im going to talk to him like Im an insolent boy, so I can play a trick on him. Can you hear me, forester?"), ("Orlando", "Very well. What do you want?"), ("Rosalind", "(as Ganymede) Please, whats the hour?"), ("Orlando", "You should ask me what time of day it is, instead. Theres no clock here in the forest."), ("Rosalind", "Then there must be no lovers in the forest, either, because theyre as good as a clock, marking the lazy foot of time with a sigh every minute and a groan every hour."), ("Orlando", "Why didnt you say the swift steps of time instead of the lazy foot? Wouldnt that have been just as appropriate?"), ("Rosalind", "No, not at all, sir. Time travels at different speeds for different people. I can tell you who time strolls for, who it trots for, who it gallops for, and who it stops cold for."), ("Orlando", "Okay, who does it trot for?"), ("Rosalind", "Well, it trots for a young woman between the time she gets engaged and the time she marries: the time thats passed may only be a week, but it always feels like seven years."), ("Orlando", "Who does time amble for?"), ("Rosalind", "For a priest who doesnt know his Latin or a rich man who is free from the gout. The one sleeps easily because he isnt up late studying and the other lives merrily because hes free from pain. The first lacks the burden of intense, exhausting study, and the second is spared the burden of heavy, exhausting poverty. Time ambles for both men."), ("Orlando", "Who does it gallop for?"), ("Rosalind", "For a thief on his way to the gallows. Such a man walks as slowly as possible and, even so, gets there too soon."), ("Orlando", "Who does it stand still for?"), ("Rosalind", "For lawyers on vacation, because they sleep their holidays away, with no sense of how time moves."), ("Orlando", "Where do you live, pretty young man?"), ("Rosalind", "With this shepherdess, my sister, on the outskirts of the forest. We live like fringe on the edges of a petticoat."), ("Orlando", "Were you born here?"), ("Rosalind", "Just like the rabbit, who lives where she is born."), ("Orlando", "Your speech is more refined than I would expect in such a remote place as this."), ("Rosalind", "Many people have told me so. Actually, an old religious uncle of mine taught me how to speak, and he was brought up in the city. He knew too much about courtship, because he fell in love back there, and when he came here he constantly lectured against it. Thank God Im not a woman and afflicted with all the giddiness that troubles that entire sex."), ("Orlando", "What were the primary evils he claimed women were guilty of?"), ("Rosalind", "There were no primary ones. All of womens faults are as alike as one half-pence is to another. Each of a womans faults seems monstrous until youre presented with the next one, which is just as bad."), ("Orlando", "Please, tell me some of them."), ("Rosalind", "No, I wont give my medicine away to anyone but the sick. Theres a man haunting this forest who abuses the trees by carving Rosalind on their barks. He hangs his odes on the hawthorns and his elegies on the brambleseach of these poems praising to the heavens one Rosalind. Now if I could find this man, this dream-catcher, I would give him some good advice, because he is truly love-sick."), ("Orlando", "Well, Im the man youre speaking of. Please, tell me your cure."), ("Rosalind", "But you dont have any of the symptoms my uncle told me about. He taught me how to recognize a man in love, and youre not a prisoner of love, Im sure."), ("Orlando", "What did he say the symptoms were?"), ("Rosalind", "A thin face, which you dont have; a sleepless, sunken eye, which you dont have; an irritable temper, which you dont have; a neglected beard, which you dont havebut that might not be so telling, since you dont have much beard anyway. Your stockings should be falling down around your ankles, your hat flying off your head, your sleeves unbuttoned, your shoes untied, and everything about you demonstrating carelessness and misery. But youre no such man. Youre so neat and well put-together that you look like you love yourself more than anyone else."), ("Orlando", "Young boy, I wish I could make you believe that Im in love."), ("Rosalind", "Make me believe it? You might as well make the one you love believe it, which shes more likely to do than admit that she doesthats one of the ways that women fool their own consciences. But really, are you the one whos been hanging on the trees those poems that speak so admiringly of Rosalind?"), ("Orlando", "I swear to you by Rosalinds own pretty hand that I am that unfortunate man."), ("Rosalind", "Are you really as in love as your poems declare?"), ("Orlando", "Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much I love her."), ("Rosalind", "Love is merely a form of insanity, and I tell you, lovers deserve the nuthouse just like crazy people do. The only reason they dont get punished and cured is that the disease is so commonplace that the nuthouse nurses are usually suffering from it, too. But I promise it can be cured with some guidance."), ("Orlando", "Have you ever cured anyone this way before?"), ("Rosalind", "Yes, one, and this is how I did it. He had to imagine that I was the girl he was in love with. I made him woo me every day. When he did, being the changeable boy I am, Id mope, act effeminate, switch moods, long for him, like him, be proud and standoffish, be dreamy, full of mannerisms, unpredictable, full of tears and then smiles; be passionate about everything, then nothing. Most boys and women act just like this. Id like him one minute and despise him the next; cry for him, then spit at himuntil finally I drove love out and anger in. He abandoned the world, and hid himself away in a monastery. So I cured him, and Ill cure you just the same, leaving you as clean as a sheeps heart, without one spot of love in you."), ("Orlando", "I dont want to be cured, boy."), ("Rosalind", "I could cure you, if you just called me Rosalind and came by my cottage every day to woo me."), ("Orlando", "By my faith in love, I will, then. Tell me where you live."), ("Rosalind", "Come with me, Ill show you, and along the way, you can tell me where you live. Will you come?"), ("Orlando", "Wholeheartedly, good young man."), ("Rosalind", "No, you have to call me Rosalind. Sister, youre coming?"), ("Touchstone", "Come on, sweet Audrey. Ill get your goats, Audrey. Well now, what do you think, Audrey? Am I the man for you, Audrey? Do my simple features please you?"), ("Audrey", "Your features, God help us! What features?"), ("Touchstone", "Well, Im out here with you and your goatsGoths sounds like goats. Touchstone makes a series of puns, none of which Audrey catches.goats, in the same way that the witty poet Ovid was abandoned to the barbaric Goths."), ("Jaques", "(to himself) Oh, knowledge put to such bad use is worse than a god cooped up in a hut."), ("Touchstone", "When a mans jokes fall that flat, its as depressing as getting a large bill for a short stay in a little room. Really, Audrey, I wish you were more poetical."), ("Audrey", "I dont know what poetical means. Is it chaste in word and action? Does it mean being truthful?"), ("Touchstone", "Not really, for the truest poetry is often the most artificial. Lovers are fond of poetry and often concoct great lies in their poems."), ("Audrey", "But you still wish the gods had made me poetical?"), ("Touchstone", "I do, in fact. Right now you swear to me that you are a virgin; if you were a poet, I might have some hope you were lying."), ("Audrey", "What, you dont want me to be chaste?"), ("Touchstone", "Not really, unless you were ugly. Chastity and beauty together in one woman is like sweetening sugar with honey."), ("Jaques", "(to himself) A sensible fool."), ("Audrey", "Well, Im not beautiful, so I hope that I can at least be chaste."), ("Touchstone", "Yes, but wasting chastity on a dirty slut is like putting good meat in a dirty dish."), ("Audrey", "Im not a slutI keep myself cleanbut I thank God I am ugly."), ("Touchstone", "Well, praise the Lord youre ugly. Maybe sluttishness will follow. Be that as it may, Im going to marry you. To that end, Ive spoken with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar from the next village, and hes promised to meet us here and marry us."), ("Jaques", "(to himself) This Id like to see."), ("Audrey", "Well, God bless this marriage!"), ("Touchstone", "Amen. You know, some men, who have fear in their hearts, might falter at this point. After all, these woods arent a proper churchMen whose wives cheated on them (called cuckolds) were imagined as having horns. Touchstone plays on the connection between a deers horns and a cuckolds horns.church, and theres no congregation here but horned animals. But who cares? Ill be brave. Horns may be hateful, but theyre also necessary. They say, Many a man doesnt know the full extent of what he owns. Exactly: many a man will see no end to the horns his wife furnishes him with. Well, thats what the wife brings to the marriage. He didnt do anything to get them. Horns? Well, there they are. Only for poor men? No, no. The noblemans are as huge as the underfed villagers. Is the single man lucky, then? No. Just as a town protected by a wall around it is worth more than a low-lying village, a married mans horned forehead is more honorable than a bachelors bare forehead. Just as its better to be skilled at self-defense than it is to avoid fighting, its better to risk a horn by marrying. Here comes Sir Oliver. Sir Oliver Martext, were glad to see you. Will you marry us here, under this tree, or should we follow you to your chapel?"), ("Sir oliver martext", "Is there anyone to give the bride away?"), ("Touchstone", "I dont want to take another mans second-hand goods."), ("Sir oliver martext", "No, someone has to give her away or the marriage isnt legal."), ("Jaques", "(coming forward) Go on, proceedIll give her away."), ("Touchstone", "Good evening, Mr. Whatshisname. How are you, sir? Were glad to see you. God bless you for being here. Im very glad to see you. This is just a trifling matter here, sir. No, no, put your hat back on."), ("Jaques", "Do you want to get married, fool?"), ("Touchstone", "Just as the ox has his yoke, the horse its bridle, the falcon a tether, a man has his desiresto keep in check."), ("Jaques", "And, being a man of your breeding, youre going to be married under some shrubs like a beggar? Get yourself to a church and have a proper priest, who can tell you what marriage is all about, marry you. This man here will slap you two together like two pieces of wood panelling. Then one of you will warp and pull awayand there goes your marriage."), ("Touchstone", "(to himself) Id rather have this guy marry us, because he is not likely to marry us well, and if were not married properly, Ill have a better excuse later to leave my wife."), ("Jaques", "Come with me and let me advise you."), ("Touchstone", "Come, sweet Audrey. We have to be married properly. Otherwise, well be living in sin. Goodbye, Sir Oliver. Were not singing, Oh,sweet OliverTouchstone is singing a popular song of the day.sweet Oliver Oh, sweet Oliver Dont leave me behind but, Go away, wind Go, I say, Im not going to marry you."), ("Sir oliver martext", "It doesnt matter to me. None of these deranged rascals can shake me from my profession."), ("Rosalind", "Dont talk to me. Im going to cry."), ("Celia", "Go ahead if you want, but remember that crying doesnt suit a man."), ("Rosalind", "But dont I have good reason to cry?"), ("Celia", "As good a reason as any. So go ahead and cry."), ("Rosalind", "I mean, his hairJudas, the disciple who betrayed Jesus, was commonly depicted with red hair.hair is even redthe same color as that lying Judas."), ("Celia", "No, its a shade browner than JudassJudas betrayed Jesus to the Romans with a kiss. Judassbut his kisses are just like Judass."), ("Rosalind", "No, really, his hair is a nice color."), ("Celia", "A very good color, this chestnut."), ("Rosalind", "His kiss is as holy as bread blessed by a priest."), ("Celia", "He must have bought a cast-iron pair of DianasDiana was the patron goddess of virgins. Dianas lips: an elderly nun isnt anymore devoted in her kissing than he is. His kiss is cold and chaste."), ("Rosalind", "But why would he promise to come visit me this morning and then not come?"), ("Celia", "Really, hes a total liar."), ("Rosalind", "Do you think so?"), ("Celia", "Yes. Hes not a pickpocket or a horse thief, but when it comes to truth in love, hes as hollow as a cup or a nut hollowed out by a worm."), ("Rosalind", "You think his feelings arent true?"), ("Celia", "Oh, I think they arewhen hes in love. But hes not in love."), ("Rosalind", "But you heard him swear up and down that he was."), ("Celia", "He was, but that doesnt mean he is anymore. Besides, the promises of a lover are as untrustworthy as a bartender handing you an inflated tab: they both swear to their lies. Hes staying in the forest with your father now."), ("Rosalind", "I met my father in the woods yesterday and had a long conversation with him. He asked me who my parents were, and I told him they were as good as he was. He laughed at that and let me go. But why are we talking about my father, when a man like Orlando exists?"), ("Celia", "Oh, sure, hes a brave man! He writes brave poems, speaks brave words, makes brave promises, and then breaks them just as bravely. Hes like a cowardly jousterThis was considered a dishonorable move in jousting.jouster, who breaks his lance across his opponents shield, rather than directly against it. But everythings brave that a young man does and foolishness leads. Whos coming here?"), ("Corin", "Mistress and master, youve often asked about that lovelorn shepherd you once saw me sitting with, the one who complained about the disdainful shepherdess he was in love with."), ("Celia", "Yes, what about him?"), ("Corin", "If youd like to see a scene played out between a man growing pale with unrequited love and a woman glowing with scorn and proud disdain, come with me a short distance and youll witness it."), ("Rosalind", "(speaking so that only CELIA can hear) Come on, lets go. The sight of lovers nourishes whoever else is in love. (to CORIN) Bring us to this little show, and Ill take a part in their play."), ("Silvius", "Sweet Phoebe, do not scorn me. Do not, Phoebe. Go ahead and say you dont love me, but not so bitterly. The executioner, whos seen death so much his heart has grown hard, still says, forgive me before he drops the axe on the criminals neck. Are you going to be crueler than the man who makes his living by killing?"), ("Phoebe", "I dont want to be your executioner: Im trying to avoid you so that I wont hurt you. You tell me my eyes are murderousthats a very pretty sentiment, and oh-so-probable, that my frail, soft eyes (which are so cowardly that they close their gates against dust) are tyrants, butchers, and murderers. Im frowning at you with all my might right now. If my eyes can injure, let them kill you now. Go ahead. Faint, fall downif you dont, then youre lying about my eyes being murderers. Come on, show me the wound that my eyes have caused. If you get scratched with a pin, it leaves a scar; even if you lean on a rush, it leaves an impression on your palm. But my eyes, which Ive darted at you, havent even left a mark. Now I am sure that eyes cant hurt a person."), ("Silvius", "Oh, darling Phoebe, if you ever fall in love with some fresh face, then youll know about the invisible wounds that loves sharp arrows can make."), ("Phoebe", "Well, until that time, dont come near me. And when that time comes, then you can mock me, but please dont pity me, because I wont pity you."), ("Rosalind", "(coming forward, speaking as Ganymede) And why, please tell me? Is your mother a goddess that you would insult a wretched man, and exult over the injury youve caused him, all at the same time? Youre not beautifulreally, youre not so pretty that you could go to bed with the lights onso why must you act so proud and pitiless? Wait a minute, whats going on? Why are you looking at me like that? I dont see anything in you but natures usual handiwork. Oh, for Gods sake, I think she also wants me to fall in love with her. No, proud woman, dont hope for that. Not even your black eyebrows, your silky black hair, your beady black eyeballs, or your yellowish-white complexion can make me worship you. You foolish shepherd: why are you following her, raining tears and puffing hot air like a foggy south wind? You are a thousand times better than she. Its fools like you who, marrying badly, fill the world with ugly children. Its not her mirror but you who insists shes beautiful. The image of herself that she gets from you is better than her actual features. But mistress, know yourself. Get down on your knees and thank heaven for sending you such a good man. Im telling you, as a friend, that you should sell while the markets goodyoure not going to have many more buyers. Ask this mans forgiveness, love him, and accept his offer. Youre already ugly, dont make matters worse by being scornful, too. So take her, shepherd, and God bless you."), ("Phoebe", "Sweet boy, Id rather hear you scold me for a whole year than this man woo me for a minute."), ("Rosalind", "Hes fallen in love with your sheer ugliness. (To SILVIUS) And I think shes falling in love with my anger. If Im right, as soon as she answers you with frowns, Ill rebuke her with bitter words. (to PHOEBE) Why are you looking at me like that?"), ("Phoebe", "I dont wish you any harm."), ("Rosalind", "Im telling you, dont fall in love with me. Im more false than the promises a man makes while drunk. Besides, I dont like you. If youd like to know where I live, my house is in the olive grove close by. Come on, sister. Shepherd, keep working on her. Come on, sister. Shepherdess, give him another chance. And dont be proud. The whole world could look at you, and no one would be as blind as he is, thinking youre beautiful. Come on, to our sheep."), ("Phoebe", "Dead shepherdThe shepherd is the writer Christopher Marlowe, a contemporary of Shakespeares who died in 1593.shepherd, now I understand what you meant when you said, Youve never loved until youve fallen in love at first sight."), ("Silvius", "Sweet Phoebe"), ("Phoebe", "What? Did you say something, Silvius?"), ("Silvius", "Sweet Phoebe, have pity on me."), ("Phoebe", "Well, Im sorry for you, gentle Silvius."), ("Silvius", "But if youre really sorry for me, you can cure me. If youre sorry for the grief I feel in loving you, you can love me back. Then both my grief and your sorrow will be cured."), ("Phoebe", "You have my friendship. Isnt that enough?"), ("Silvius", "I want you."), ("Phoebe", "Well, thats just greedy. Silvius, I used to hate you. I still dont love you, but since youre well-spoken when it comes to love, Ill keep you around and make use of you. But dont expect any more than that."), ("Silvius", "My love for you is so pure and perfect, and Im in such a bad way, that Ill be grateful for whatever leftover love you throw my way. Every once in a while, toss me a distracted smile, and Ill live on that."), ("Phoebe", "Do you know the boy who was just speaking to me?"), ("Silvius", "Not very well, but Ive met him several times. Hes bought the cottage and the grounds that the old peasant used to own."), ("Phoebe", "Dont think Im in love with him just because Im asking about him. Hes an irritable boy, though he speaks well. But what do I care about words? And yet, words are a good thing when the man speaking them is pleasant to listen to. Hes good-looking, but not too good-looking. Hes awfully proud, but his pride suits him. Hell grow up to be a proper man. The best thing about him is his complexion: as fast as he offends me with words, his pretty face heals the wound. Hes not very tall, but hes tall enough for his age. His legs arent great, but theyre alright. His lips were nice and red, a little more lively and passionate than the red that was in his cheeksone was pure red and the other more pink. There are women out there, Silvius, who would have nearly fallen in love with him after inspecting him as closely as I have. But I dont love him or hate himthough I suppose I have more reason to hate him than love him. What right did he have to scold me like that? He said my eyes and my hair were black and, now that I think of it, he scorned me. Im surprised I didnt bite back. But no matterIll get back at him soon enough. Ill write him a taunting letter, and you can deliver it. Will you do that for me, Silvius?"), ("Silvius", "With all my heart, Phoebe."), ("Phoebe", "Ill write it right nowthe whole thing is pressing on my mind, and on my heart. Ill be bitter toward him, and curt. Come with me, Silvius."), ("Jaques", "Please, pretty young man, Id like to get to know you better."), ("Rosalind", "They say you are a melancholy fellow."), ("Jaques", "I am. I like it better than laughing."), ("Rosalind", "People who are either too serious or too silly are awful. They make themselves targets for ridicule even faster than drunks do."), ("Jaques", "Well, I think its good to be serious and keep quiet."), ("Rosalind", "In that case its good to be a post."), ("Jaques", "Im not a scholars kind of melancholy, which is all about impressing ones peers, or a musicians, which comes from his passion for his art. I dont have the proud melancholy of a courtier or the ambitious melancholy of a soldier or the calculated melancholy of a lawyer. My melancholy is not like a ladyswhich is nothing more than an affectationnor like a lovers, which combines all of these qualities. My melancholy is purely my owna compound made from many ingredients. Im serious because Ive traveled so much. When I think about all the things Ive seen, I sink into deep thoughts."), ("Rosalind", "Youre a traveler. Well then, you have good reason to be sad. Im afraid youve sold your own land to see other mens. To have seen much but own nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands."), ("Jaques", "Not true. I gained my experience."), ("Rosalind", "And your experience makes you sad. Id rather have a jester to make me happy than experience to make me sadand to travel for all that trouble, no less!"), ("Orlando", "Good day and happiness to you, darling Rosalind."), ("Jaques", "NoIll say goodbye if youre going to talk in blank verseThis is a joke: most of the play is in blank (unrhymed) verse.blank verse."), ("Rosalind", "Goodbye, Mr. Traveler. Make sure to keep up your foreign accent, wear strange clothes, belittle all the benefits you receive from your native land and fall out of love with it, and nearly curse God for making you look like the Englishman you are, or else Ill never believe youve paddled in a gondola in a Venetian canal, as you say you have. (as Ganymede pretending to be ROSALIND) Whats going on, Orlando? Where have you been all this time? And you call yourself a lover? If you ever insult me like this again, dont bother coming around here again."), ("Orlando", "My beautiful Rosalind, Im only an hour late."), ("Rosalind", "Youd break a date with your beloved by a whole hour? A man who will dare to meet his lover even a thousandth part of a minute latewell, its possible he likes her, but I doubt he really loves the woman."), ("Orlando", "Forgive me, darling Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "No, if youre ever late like this again, Ill refuse to see you. Id rather be wooed by a snail."), ("Orlando", "A snail?"), ("Rosalind", "Yes, a snail. Because even though hes slow, he carries his house on his heada better offer than you can make a woman, I think. Besides, he brings his fate with him."), ("Orlando", "What fate is that?"), ("Rosalind", "Why, his cuckolds horns, of coursethe kind you men are always blaming on your wives. See, the snail already has its horns, which prevents nasty rumors from spreading about his wifes infidelity."), ("Orlando", "A virtuous woman wont give her husband horns, and my Rosalind is definitely virtuous."), ("Rosalind", "And I am your Rosalind."), ("Celia", "(as Aliena) He likes calling you that, but hes got another Rosalind out there with a prettier face."), ("Rosalind", "Come on, woo me, woo me. Im in a good mood now and likely to give you what you want. What would you say to me now if I really were your precious little Rosalind?"), ("Orlando", "Id kiss you before I spoke."), ("Rosalind", "No, it would be better to speak first and kiss only after youve run out of things to say. When good orators finish talking, they spit; when lovers do (God help us if they ever do), they kiss."), ("Orlando", "What if she wont kiss me?"), ("Rosalind", "Then shes making you beg, and that gives you a whole new set of things to talk about."), ("Orlando", "Who could be out of things to say if he were with the girl he loves?"), ("Rosalind", "Indeed, you would be out if I were your mistressif my chastity is worth as much as my wit."), ("Orlando", "Would I be out of my suitOut of my suit here means hed have to end his courtship of Rosalind (suit is used in the legal sense). Rosalind takes him to mean a suit of clothes.suit?"), ("Rosalind", "No, youd still have your clothes onbut, yes, I wouldnt think much of you. Arent I your Rosalind?"), ("Orlando", "I like to pretend you are, because then its almost like actually talking to her."), ("Rosalind", "Well, on behalf of Rosalind, Ill tell you I dont want you."), ("Orlando", "Then, on behalf of myself, Ill tell you Ill die."), ("Rosalind", "No, you wont die yourself, but only by proxy. This world is almost six thousand years old, and in all this time not one man has ever actually died from love. TroilusAccording to ancient myth, Troilus, Cressidas lover, was killed by the warrior Achilles. Leander drowned while swimming across the Hellespont to visit his lover, Hero. Both were described and redescribed through the ages as tragic lovers. Troilus may have wanted to die from love, and hes now considered one of the great, tragic love heroes, but, in fact, a Greek with a club beat his brains out. It had nothing to do with love. Leander would have lived many more years if it hadnt been for a particularly hot summer night, when he went swimming in the Hellespont, got a cramp, and drowned. The foolish poets of the time insisted he died for love, but theyre lying. All the love stories are lies. Men have died from time to time, and worms have eaten them, but not because of love."), ("Orlando", "I hope Rosalind doesnt feel as you do. Her frown alone would kill me."), ("Rosalind", "No, her frown wouldnt kill a fly. But come on, now Ill play your Rosalind, and in a more friendly state of mind. Whatever you ask for, Ill give."), ("Orlando", "Then love me, Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "Okay, I willon Fridays and Saturdays, and the rest."), ("Orlando", "And will you have me?"), ("Rosalind", "Sure, and twenty others just like you."), ("Orlando", "Whats that?"), ("Rosalind", "Well, arent you a good man?"), ("Orlando", "I hope so."), ("Rosalind", "And can a person ever have too much of a good thing? Come on, sister, you can be the priest and marry us. Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?"), ("Orlando", "Please, marry us."), ("Celia", "I cant say the wordsAs Celia is not a priest, she cant actually perform the ceremony.words."), ("Rosalind", "You just have to say, Do you, Orlando"), ("Celia", "Oh, stop it. Do you, Orlando, take Rosalind to be your lawfully wedded wife?"), ("Orlando", "I do."), ("Rosalind", "Okay, but when?"), ("Orlando", "Right now; as fast as she can say the vows."), ("Rosalind", "Then you have to say, I take you, Rosalind, to be my lawfully wedded wife."), ("Orlando", "I take you, Rosalind, to be my lawfully wedded wife."), ("Rosalind", "Maybe I should ask you what right you have to take me, but Ill take you, Orlando, to be my husband. Look, Ive sped ahead of the priest and answered the question before he even asked. A womans thoughts are always running ahead of her actions."), ("Orlando", "So do all thoughts. They have wings."), ("Rosalind", "Now tell me how long you intend to keep her."), ("Orlando", "Forever and a day."), ("Rosalind", "You might as well just say for a day, and forget the ever part. No, Orlando, men are like April when theyre wooing a girlyoung, and passionatebut like December once theyre married and their passions have cooled. Women are as sweet and temperate as springtime when theyre single, but the climate changes once theyre married. Ill be more jealous of you than a wild rooster over his hen; more noisy than a parrot chattering about the rain; more fond of new things than an ape; more giddy about getting what I want than a monkey. Ill cry at nothing, and Ill always do it when youre in a good mood. And when you want to go to sleep, Ill be up laughing like a hyena."), ("Orlando", "But will my Rosalind do this, too?"), ("Rosalind", "Indeed, shell act just like me."), ("Orlando", "But she is wise."), ("Rosalind", "Right. If she werent wise, she wouldnt be smart enough to behave badly. The wiser the woman, the wilder. If you close the doors on a womans wit, itll fly out the window. If you shut the windows, it will pour out the keyhole. If you stop up the keyhole, it will escape from the chimney along with the smoke."), ("Orlando", "A man with a wife like that might ask, Hey, wandering wit, where are you off to?"), ("Rosalind", "Nah, better save the questions for when you find her in your neighbors bed."), ("Orlando", "And what wit could excuse that?"), ("Rosalind", "Shell say she was at the neighbors looking for you. Youll never find her without an answer unless you find her without a tongue. A woman who doesnt know how to make her own indiscretions look like her husbands fault is hardly a woman. And shes hardly fit to be a motherher child will turn out to be a fool."), ("Orlando", "Rosalind, I have to leave you for two hours."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, no! Darling, I cant live without you for two hours."), ("Orlando", "I must join the duke for lunch. Ill be back here with you by two o'clock."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, go, leave me. I knew youd turn out this way. My friends told me as much, and I knew it, too. But I was won over by your flattering words. Im just another girl whom youve cast aside. So, take me, death! Youll be back at two o'clock?"), ("Orlando", "Yes, sweet Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "Honestly, truly, in Gods name, and by all those little girly oaths that dont actually have any power, if you break even a little bit of your promise, or if you come even a minute after two o'clock, Ill think you the most pathetic promise breaker, the most lying lover, and the most unworthy partner for Rosalind that could be found anywhere. So beware of my contempt, and keep your promise."), ("Orlando", "Ill keep my promise just as if you really were Rosalind. So, goodbye."), ("Rosalind", "Well, time is the old judge that tries your kind of criminal. Time will tell what kind of a man you are. Goodbye."), ("Celia", "You have absolutely abused our sex in this love talk of yours. We should rip off your mans clothing and show the world the woman who has represented her own kind so badly."), ("Rosalind", "Oh cousin, cousin, cousin, my sweet little cousin, I wish you knew how deep in love I am. The bottom of my love is so deep it cant be reached. Its as deep as the bay of Portugal."), ("Celia", "Or its bottomless, at least: pour affection in one end, and it runs out the other."), ("Rosalind", "Cupidthat blind bastard son of Venus, conceived from a thought and anger, born from insanity, that blind, naughty boy who makes everyone else go blind just because he cant see himselflet Cupid judge how deep my love runs. Im telling you, Aliena, I cant stand being apart from Orlando. Im going to find some shade and sigh until he returns."), ("Celia", "And Im going to sleep."), ("Jaques", "Which one of you killed the deer?"), ("First lord", "It was me, sir."), ("Jaques", "Lets bring this man to the duke, like a triumphant Roman conqueror. Put the deers horns on his head, like a victory branch. Do you have a song, forester, for this occasion?"), ("Second lord", "Yes, sir."), ("Jaques", "Then sing it. It doesnt matter if its in tune so long as its loud enough."), ("Second lord", "(sings) What should we give to the man who killed this deer? Give him the hide and the horns to wear. Then sing this song to send him home (The other LORDS pick up the deer) Dont be ashamed to wear the horns. Theyve been worn since before you were born. Your fathers father wore it, And your father endured it. The horn, the horn, the lustful horn Is not to be laughed at or scorned."), ("Rosalind", "What do you say now? Isnt it past two o'clock? And I see a lot of Orlando here."), ("Celia", "Im telling you, hes taken his bow and arrows and, witha pure love and a worried brain, has gone to take a nap. Look whos coming."), ("Silvius", "(to ROSALIND) Ive been sent to find you, young man. My lovely Phoebe told me to give you this letter. I dont know whats in it, but guessing from her stern expression and her wasp-like demeanor as she was writing it, I bet shes angry. Youll have to excuse me, as Im just the messenger."), ("Rosalind", "(reading the letter as Ganymede) Patience herself would be shocked by this letter and become feisty. If I can take this, I can take anything. She says Im not handsome and have no manners. She says Im arrogant and that she couldnt love me even if men were as rare as the mythical phoenix. Honestly! Im not hunting after her love. Why would she write this way to me? Tell the truth, shepherd: you wrote this letter."), ("Silvius", "No, I swear, I dont even know whats in it. Phoebe wrote it."), ("Rosalind", "Come on, youre a fool, and driven to extreme measures by love. I saw her hands: they were as rough as leather and just as brown; I thought she was wearing old gloves, but they were, in fact, her hands. These are the hands of a hard-working housewife, but thats not the point. The point is that she didnt write this letter. These are a mans words, and his handwriting."), ("Silvius", "Im telling you, its hers."), ("Rosalind", "Well, its written in a boisterous and rude stylesomeone is up for a fight. Why, she challenges me like a Muslim would challenge a Christian. No, a womans gentle brain could never have come up with such crude expressions and even harsher meanings. Do you want to hear what she says?"), ("Silvius", "If you want to read it, as I havent heard it yet, though Ive heard too much of Phoebes cruelty."), ("Rosalind", "Shes Phoebe-ing me. Listen to what the tyrant says. (reading) Are you a god disguised as a shepherd, that you know so expertly how to burn my heart? Now, honestly, would a woman rant like this?"), ("Silvius", "You call that ranting?"), ("Rosalind", "(reading) Why have you set aside your divine nature just to battle with a womans affections? Did you ever hear such ranting? (reading) When other men have wooed me, they didnt hurt me. In other words, she thinks Im not a man, but an animal. (reading) If the scorn in your bright eyes can make me fall so deeply in love, can you imagine what power they might have if they looked at me more kindly? While you sneered at me, I loved you. Consider what effect kind prayers might have. The man that brings you this letter doesnt know how I feel about you. Send me your answer via him. Tell me via him whether you will accept my faithful offer of myself and all that I can do. Or tell him you will deny my love, in which case Ill figure out how to die."), ("Silvius", "You call this sneering?"), ("Celia", "(as Aliena) Oh, you poor shepherd!"), ("Rosalind", "Why do you pity him? He doesnt deserve any pity. (to SILVIUS) Why would you love such a woman? So she can turn you into an instrument and play lousy tunes on you? Its unbearable. Well, go back to herI can tell shes turned you into a perfectly tame snakeand tell her this: if she loves me, I command her to love you. And if she wont love you, tell her Ill never take her unless you beg me to. If youre a true lover, get out of here. No, dont say another word, because here comes more company."), ("Oliver", "Good morning, pretty ones. Tell me, if you know: where in this forest is there a shepherds cottage surrounded by olive trees?"), ("Celia", "West of here, in the valley next to us. Passing by on your right, there is a row of willows. Follow them straight to the cottage. But right now, the house is keeping to itself theres no one home."), ("Oliver", "I think I recognize you from a description I was given of your clothing and age: The boy is pretty and feminine, and carries himself like a blooming young woman. The woman is short, with a darker complexion than her brother. Arent you the owners of the house I was just asking about?"), ("Celia", "Since you asked, I suppose its not bragging to say that we are."), ("Oliver", "Orlando sends his regards to you both, and he sends this bloody handkerchief to the boy he calls his Rosalind. Is that you?"), ("Rosalind", "It is. What does this mean?"), ("Oliver", "Its a story that involves some shame on my part. Its about who I am, and how, why, and where this handkerchief was stained."), ("Celia", "Please, tell us."), ("Oliver", "When young Orlando left you last, he promised to return within an hour. He was pacing through the forest, thinking bittersweet thoughts of love, and listen what happened! He looked to the side, and pay attention to what he saw then: under an oak treewhose lower branches were mossy with age and top branches ancient and brittlehe saw a wretched beggar, with overgrown hair and beard, asleep on his back. A green and gold snake had wound itself around this mans neck and was slowly making its way toward the mans mouth. However, when it saw Orlando, it unwound itself and slunk away into a bush. But there happened to be a lioness crouching under that bush. Her cubs had nursed from her until she was dry, so she was ravenously hungry, and she was lying with her head on the ground, watching the man as cats do and waiting to see if he would wake upa lion wont prey on anything that seems dead. Seeing the lioness, Orlando approached the sleeping man. He discovered that the man was his older brother."), ("Celia", "Oh, Ive heard him talk about that brother, and he described him as the most inhumane man alive."), ("Oliver", "And he was right. I know exactly how inhumane he was."), ("Rosalind", "But, back to Orlando, did he leave his brother there, to be food for the hungry mother-lioness?"), ("Oliver", "He turned away twice and almost left him there. But his kindness was nobler than even his desire for revenge, his natural goodness was stronger than his need to give his brother what he deserved. He fought the lioness and quickly defeated her. I woke from my miserable sleep when I heard the noise of their struggle."), ("Celia", "Are you his brother?"), ("Rosalind", "Was it you that he rescued?"), ("Celia", "Was it you that was always plotting to kill him?"), ("Oliver", "That was me, but its not me Im not ashamed to tell you what I once was, since Im so happy to have since converted."), ("Rosalind", "But what about the bloody handkerchief?"), ("Oliver", "Ill get there. When we had told each other our entire stories and cried, and Id told him how Id ended up in in the forestwell, he brought me to the duke, who gave me fresh clothing and hospitality, and put me in my brothers care. My brother immediately took me to his cave, where he took off his clothing and there on his arm was a wound where the lioness had attacked him, ripping off some of his flesh. The wound had been bleeding the entire time. So, now he fainted, and as he fainted, he called out, Rosalind! Quickly, I resuscitated him and bound up his wound. After a brief timeas he is a strong, brave man he sent me out to find you, even though Im a stranger to you. He wanted me to tell you this story and beg your forgiveness for his having broken his promise. He wanted me to give this handkerchief, soaked in his blood, to the boy that he jokingly calls his Rosalind."), ("Celia", "Oh no! Ganymede! Ganymede, sweetheart?"), ("Oliver", "Many people faint when they see blood."), ("Celia", "Theres more to it than that. Ganymede!"), ("Oliver", "Look, hes recovering."), ("Rosalind", "I want to go home."), ("Celia", "Well take you there. Please, will you take his arm?"), ("Oliver", "Buck up, boy! Youre a man? You dont have a mans courage."), ("Rosalind", "Its true, I confess. Oh, sir, someone would think I was a good fake. Please tell your brother what a convincing show I put on. Whoo-hoo!"), ("Oliver", "That was no show. Your cheeks are too flushed for me to believe that was a fake faint."), ("Rosalind", "Fake, Im telling you."), ("Oliver", "Well, then, be brave and pretend to be a man."), ("Rosalind", "Thats what Im doing. But honestly, I should have been a woman."), ("Celia", "Come on, you keep getting paler. Please, lets go home. Sir, please come with us."), ("Oliver", "Ill do that, because I have to tell my brother how you forgave him, Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "Ill think of something. But please, tell him how well I faked a faint. Will you come with us?"), ("Touchstone", "Well get married at some point, Audrey. Be patient."), ("Audrey", "Really, the priest was good enough, no matter what that old guy said."), ("Touchstone", "No, he was wicked and vile. But Audrey, theres a boy in the forest who claims youre his girl."), ("Audrey", "Yes, I know who youre talking about, but he has no claim on me. Here comes the man himself."), ("Touchstone", "It warms my heart to encounter such a country bumpkin. Truly, we witty men cant hold our tongues. We have to mess with the likes of him, we just cant help it."), ("William", "Good evening, Audrey."), ("Audrey", "Good evening, William."), ("William", "And good evening to you, sir."), ("Touchstone", "Good evening to you, good friend. No, no, put your hat back on, put it back on. No, please, keep your head covered. How old are you, friend?"), ("William", "Twenty-five, sir."), ("Touchstone", "A mature age. Is your name William?"), ("William", "Yes, its William, sir."), ("Touchstone", "A good name. Were you born here in the forest?"), ("William", "Yes sir, thank God."), ("Touchstone", "Thank Godthats a good answer. Are you rich?"), ("William", "Well, so-so."), ("Touchstone", "So-so is good, very good, an excellent answer. And then again, its not so good, but only so-so. Are you wise?"), ("William", "Yes sir, Im fairly witty."), ("Touchstone", "Well, thats a fine answer. I seem to remember a saying: Only a fool thinks hes wise; the wise manThis line may be in response to Williams open-mouthed gape, but its also cruelly taunting the bumpkin for his narrow experience and how his philosophy derives only from that experience.wise man knows that he is, in fact, a fool. When one self-described philosopher wanted to eat grapes, he opened his lips when they entered his mouth, thereby making the theoretical point that grapes were made to be eaten, and lips to open. Do you love this girl?"), ("William", "I do, sir."), ("Touchstone", "Give me your hand. Are you educated?"), ("William", "No, sir."), ("Touchstone", "Then learn this from me: if you have something, you have it. Everyone knows that when you pour a drink out of a cup and into a glass, the cup becomes empty. And all the authorities know that ipse is Latin for he. You are no longer ipse, because I am he."), ("William", "Which he, sir?"), ("Touchstone", "Why, the he that will marry this woman. Therefore, idiot, abandon (or, in common language, leave) the society (which in the boorish tongue is company) of this femalemaybe youll get it if I say woman, instead. Say it all at once, now: abandon the society of this female, or, simpleton, youll perish. Let me put it in a way youll understand: youll die. Or, rather, Ill kill you, or Ill do away with you, or Ill turn your life into death and your freedom into captivity. Ill poison you, or beat you with a club, or stab you with a sword. Ill bandy you about and overwhelm you with my cleverness. I will, in other words, kill you in three hundred and fifty ways. Therefore, tremble with fear and leave."), ("Audrey", "Do what he says, William."), ("William", "Farewell, sir."), ("Corin", "Our master and mistress are looking for you. Lets go."), ("Touchstone", "Hurry up, Audrey, hurry. Im coming, Im coming."), ("Orlando", "Is it really possible that you could like her right after meeting her? And fall in love with her after merely seeing her? And as soon as you fall in love, with her, woo her? And as soon as you woo her, have her accept? And do you really mean to marry her?"), ("Oliver", "Dont question the foolish haste of it allor her poverty or our short time together or the abruptness of my courtship or the abruptness of her consentbut say with me, I love Aliena. And say with me that she loves me. Agree to this match, so we can enjoy each other. It will be to your advantage, because Ill leave our fathers house and all his property to you, while I live and die a shepherd here in the forest."), ("Orlando", "You have my consent. You can be married tomorrow if you want. Ill invite the duke and all of his followers. Go get Aliena readybecause, look, here comes my Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "Hello, brother."), ("Oliver", "And hello to you, fair sister."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, darling Orlando, its so hard to see you wearing your heart in a sling."), ("Orlando", "Actually, its my arm."), ("Rosalind", "I thought your heart had been wounded by a lions claws."), ("Orlando", "My heart has been wounded, but by a lady, not a lion."), ("Rosalind", "Did your brother tell you how well I pretended to faint when he showed me the handkerchief?"), ("Orlando", "Yes, and he told me some things that were even more amazing."), ("Rosalind", "Oh, I know what youre talking about. Its true: it was as sudden as two rams rushing at each other, and as quick as Julius Caesars I came, I saw, I conquered. Your brother and my sister had no sooner met than they gave each other a good once over; they had no sooner looked at each other than they fell in love; no sooner fell in love than they sighed; no sooner sighed than they asked each other why they had sighed; no sooner answered than they sought a solution. And in this way, degree by degree, theyve built a staircase toward marriage. And they had better climb those stairs immediately, or else theyll end up in bed before they ought to. Theyre in the heat of passion; they simply have to be together. You couldnt beat the two of them apart."), ("Orlando", "Theyll be married tomorrow, and Ill invite the duke to the ceremony. But, oh, it makes me bitter to look at happiness through another mans eyes. Tomorrow Ill be at the depths of my misery thinking about the happiness my brother has achieved, in having what he wished for."), ("Rosalind", "Well then, cant I act as Rosalind for you tomorrow?"), ("Orlando", "I cant live by pretending anymore."), ("Rosalind", "I wont exhaust you anymore with idle chitchat. You should know that I think youre a smart man. I really mean it. Im not telling you this so youll think well of me (who wouldnt think well of someone who thought well of him, after all?) And Im not trying to enhance my own reputation, but only to do you good. Believe me, then, that I have special powers. Since I was three years old, Ive been in contact with a powerful but virtuous magicianno black magic here. If you love Rosalind as much as you say you do, you will marry her when your brother marries Aliena. I know where she is and, if you dont mind, I will set her before you tomorrow, whole and unharmed."), ("Orlando", "Are you serious?"), ("Rosalind", "I swear on my life, which I take pretty seriously, even if I am a magician. So put on your best clothes and tell your friends to come. Because if you want to be married tomorrow, you will, and if you want to be married to Rosalind, you will. Look, here comes someone who loves me, along with someone who loves her."), ("Phoebe", "Young man, it was very rude of you to show him the letter I wrote you."), ("Rosalind", "I dont care. Im being contemptuous and cruel toward you on purpose. A faithful shepherd worships you. Why dont you pay attention to him? Why dont you love him? He adores you."), ("Phoebe", "Silvius, tell this youth what it means to be in love."), ("Silvius", "It means being full of sighs and tears, like I am for Phoebe."), ("Phoebe", "And like I am for Ganymede."), ("Orlando", "And like I am for Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "And like I am for no woman."), ("Silvius", "It means being faithful and ready to serve, just like I am for Phoebe."), ("Phoebe", "And like I am for Ganymede."), ("Orlando", "And like I am for Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "And like I am for no woman."), ("Silvius", "It means being filled with fantasy; with passion and wishes; with adoration, loyalty, and devotion. It means being humble, being patient, being impatient, being pure, being put-upon, being obedient. Just as I am for Phoebe."), ("Phoebe", "And I for Ganymede."), ("Orlando", "And I for Rosalind."), ("Rosalind", "And I for no woman."), ("Phoebe", "Since you know all this is true, why do you blame me for loving you?"), ("Silvius", "And why do you blame me for loving you?"), ("Orlando", "And why do you blame me for loving you?"), ("Rosalind", "Who are you talking to?"), ("Orlando", "Im saying it to the girl who isnt here and doesnt hear me."), ("Rosalind", "All right, stop this. You sound like a pack of wolves howling at the moon. (to SILVIUS) Ill help you, if I can. (to PHOEBE) If I could love you, I would. All of you, meet me here tomorrow. (to PHOEBE) If Im ever going to marry a woman, Ill marry you. And I am getting married tomorrow. (to ORLANDO) If I will ever satisfy a man, Ill satisfy you. And you will get married tomorrow. (to SILVIUS) If the thing you desire will make you happy, Ill make you happy. And youll get married tomorrow. (to ORLANDO) By the love you have for Rosalind, come back tomorrow. (to SILVIUS) By the love you have for Phoebe, come here tomorrow. And by my love for no woman, Ill also be here tomorrow. So, goodbye for now. You all know what to do."), ("Silvius", "As long as Im alive, Ill be here."), ("Phoebe", "Me too."), ("Orlando", "Me too."), ("Touchstone", "Tomorrow is the happy day, Audrey. Well be married tomorrow."), ("Audrey", "I cant wait. I hope it doesnt make me unchaste that I reallywant to be a married woman. Here come two of Duke Seniors pages."), ("First page", "Good afternoon, good gentleman."), ("Touchstone", "It really is good to see you. Come, sit, sit, and sing me a song."), ("Second page", "Sounds good to us. Sit between us."), ("First page", "Should we just get down to it? Should we skip all that hacking and spitting and saying that were hoarse, which only makes clear what lousy singers we are?"), ("Second page", "Yes, yes, and lets sing in unison, like two gypsies riding on a single horse."), ("Pages", "(singing) There was a lover and his girl, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey-nonny-no, Who walked through the cornfield In the springtime, the only proper wedding time, The time when birds sing, Hey ding-a-ding-ding. Sweet lovers love the spring. Between the acres of rye, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey-nonny-no The pretty country folk would lie In the springtime, the only proper wedding-time, The time when birds sing, Hey ding-a-ding-ding. Sweet lovers love the spring. They wrote this song at that time, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey-nonny-no, About how life was as short-lived as a flower In the springtime, the only proper wedding time, The time when birds sing, hey ding-a-ding-ding. Sweet lovers love the spring. So seize the present time, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey-nonny-no, For love is all perfection In the springtime, the only proper wedding time, The time when birds sing, Hey ding-a-ding-ding. Sweet lovers love the spring."), ("Touchstone", "Really, young men, though it wasnt a very hard song to get right, the music was still all out of tune."), ("First page", "No, sir, youre wrong; we kept the songsIn other words, they kept the rhythm and didnt speed up. However, Touchstone was complaining not about the rhythm but about the melody.songs time, we didnt lose any."), ("Touchstone", "Oh, yes you didI lost time listening to your foolish song. God be with you, and I hope He fixes your voices! Come on, Audrey."), ("Duke senior", "Orlando, do you really believe that this boy can do everything hes promised?"), ("Orlando", "Sometimes I do and sometimes I dont. Im afraid of hoping, but I hope anyway."), ("Rosalind", "(as Ganymede) Be patient for a bit longer while I go over the terms of our agreement. (to DUKE SENIOR) You say that if I bring Rosalind here, you will give her to Orlando in marriage?"), ("Duke senior", "Yes, even if I had whole kingdoms to give along with her."), ("Rosalind", "(to ORLANDO) And you promise to marry her, when I bring her here?"), ("Orlando", "I will, even if I were king of all kingdoms."), ("Rosalind", "(to PHOEBE) And you say youll marry me, if Im willing to marry you?"), ("Phoebe", "Yes, even if I die an hour later."), ("Rosalind", "But if you decide not to marry me, youll marry this faithful shepherd instead?"), ("Phoebe", "Thats the deal."), ("Rosalind", "(to SILVIUS) And you agree to marry Phoebe, if she is willing?"), ("Silvius", "Even if marrying her meant I died."), ("Rosalind", "Ive promised to make everything right. Duke Senior, keep your promise to give away your daughter. Orlando, keep your promise to marry his daughter. Phoebe, keep your promise to marry me, and to marry this shepherd if you choose to refuse me. Silvius, keep your promise to marry Phoebe if she refuses me. Ill leave now, to set all these things right."), ("Duke senior", "This shepherd boy reminds me quite vividly of my daughter."), ("Orlando", "My lord, when I first saw him I thought he was your daughters brother. But, my lord, this boy was born in the forest and has been schooled not in the usual subjects but only in magic. His uncle, who the boy says is a great magician and lives concealed within the boundaries of this forest, taught him. Well, look: there must be another floodIn the biblical story of Noah, God sends a flood to wash away mankind and tells Noah to take two of every animal on a ship, so that the world can be repopulated later. Touchstone and Audrey are the latest twosome in Noahs ark of marriages.flood coming, with these couples also on their way to Noahs ark. Here comes a pair of those strange creatures called fools in any language."), ("Touchstone", "Hello, and greetings to you all."), ("Jaques", "My lord, welcome this man. This is the jester I have met so many times in the forest. He swears he used to be a courtier."), ("Touchstone", "If anyone doubts this, let him put me on trial. I have danced a round, I have flattered a lady, I have been polite with my friends, smooth and cunning with my enemies. I have bankrupted three tailors. I have quarreled four times, and almost got in a fight."), ("Jaques", "And how was that one settled?"), ("Touchstone", "Well, we almost fought and then realized that we had reached the seventh cause."), ("Jaques", "What do you mean, the seventh cause? (to DUKE SENIOR) My good lord, I hope you like this fellow."), ("Duke senior", "I like him very well."), ("Touchstone", "God bless you, sir. I want the same thing as all these other people. Ive come here to be married, like all these other would-be couples. This poor virgin isnt much to look at, sir, but shes mine. Its a strange habit of mine to take the thing that no one else wants: virginity in an ugly girl is like a rich man living in a broken-down house or a pearl in the hideous oyster."), ("Duke senior", "Really, hes very witty, and full of wise sayings."), ("Touchstone", "His wittiness, a sweet disease, is here one minute and gone the next, sir, as with most fools."), ("Jaques", "But back to that argument you mentioned. Whats the seventh cause?"), ("Touchstone", "Our argument went through seven stageswatch your posture, Audrey. It went like this. I didnt like the way a particular courtier had cut his beard. He sent me word that, whether I liked it or not, he liked it fine. They call this the courteous retort. If I repeat that it isnt cut well, and he responds that he isnt trying to please me, just himself, with his beard. They call this the modest quip. If I say again it is poorly cut, and he responds that my judgment is no good, they call this the sullen reply. If I say yet again that his beard is poorly cut, and he says that Im not speaking the truth, they call this the brave retort. One more time I say its not well cut, and he says Im lying. They call this the argumentative countercheck. And so on through the circumstantial lie and the direct lie."), ("Jaques", "And how many times did you say his beard wasnt cut well?"), ("Touchstone", "I didnt dare take it past the circumstantial lie, and he didnt dare go to the direct lieBefore a duel, opponents usually compared the length of their swords.direct lie, so we compared the lengths of our swords and then ended the fight."), ("Jaques", "Can you name the steps of that argument again?"), ("Touchstone", "Of course, sir. There are rulebooks for arguing just as there are rulebooks for manners. Here are the steps. First is the courteous retort; second, the modest quip; third, the sullen reply; fourth, the valiant retort; fifth, the argumentative countercheck; sixth, the circumstantial lie; seventh, the direct lie. You can avoid getting to that final stage if you can properly use an if. I once heard of an argument that seven judges couldnt settle. The two parties met up on their own, and one said, Well, if you said this-and-that, then I must have said such-and-such, and they shook hands and parted on good terms. If is the only peacemaker. If is a very valuable word."), ("Jaques", "Isnt he a remarkable fellow, my lord? Hes as smart as they come, but just a jester."), ("Duke senior", "He uses his clownishness to disguise his deadly wit."), ("Hymen", "There is laughter in heaven When earthly affairs are put right And people unite. Good duke, come receive your daughter. Hymen brought her from heaven Yes, brought her here."), ("Rosalind", "(to DUKE SENIOR) I give myself to you, for I am yours.(to ORLANDO) I give myself to you, for I am yours."), ("Duke senior", "If my eyes dont deceive me, you are my daughter."), ("Orlando", "If my eyes dont deceive me, you are my Rosalind."), ("Phoebe", "If my eyes arent deceiving me, goodbye, love."), ("Rosalind", "(to DUKE SENIOR) If you wont be my father, I wont have any. (to ORLANDO) If you wont be my husband, I wont have any. (to PHOEBE) If you wont be my wife, I wont have any."), ("Hymen", "Quiet! Stop chattering until Ive made everything clear. There are eight people here that I will join in marriage, if the truth you see before you pleases you. (to ORLANDO and ROSALIND) No hardship can part you. (to OLIVER and CELIA) Your hearts are together. (to PHOEBE) You must consent to having Silvius as your husband, unless youd rather be married to a woman. (to TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY) You are bound to each other as closely as winter is to bad weather. (to all the married couples) While we sing a wedding hymn, satisfy your curiosity with questioning. Your surprise will fade, and youll learn how all this came to be. (singing) Marriage is the crownJunoJuno was the Roman goddess of marriage. Junowears, Its a holy bond of domesticity. Its marriage that populates each town, So marriage should be honored. Honor, honor, and fame Is due to Hymen, the god of every town."), ("Duke senior", "My niece, you are welcome here as if you were my own daughter."), ("Phoebe", "(to SILVIUS) I wont go back on my promise; Ill marry you. Youve won me over with your faith."), ("Jaques de boys", "Let me have your attention for a moment. Im Sir Rowlands middle son, and I bring you news. When Duke Frederick heard that great, worthy men were coming to this forest every day, he raised a large army to invade this land and fight his brother. But just at the edge of the forest, he met an old religious man. He spoke with him for a while and decided not only to abandon his pursuit of his brother but even to retreat from the world. Hes giving the throne to his banished brother and restoring all the men hed exiled to their rightful lands. I swear on my life that Im speaking the truth."), ("Duke senior", "Welcome, young man: you bring a great present to your brothers' wedding. To Oliver, you return his lands; to Orlando, you give a whole dukedom, since he will inherit my land. But first, lets finish the things we started out here. Then Ill share the abundance of my returned fortune with all those that have stayed out here with me, according to the rank and status each of you enjoy. But until then, lets forget our nobility and enjoy some fun. Music, please. Brides and bridegrooms, dance your happiness away."), ("Jaques", "Wait a minute, sir. Do you mean to say that the duke has abandoned the glamorous court to live as a monk?"), ("Jaques de boys", "Yes, he has."), ("Jaques", "I will go find him. There is much to be learned from these converts. (to DUKE SENIOR) I bestow on you your former honor, for your patience and virtue. (to ORLANDO) I give you the love that your faithfulness deserves (to OLIVER) and you your land, your love, and your great allies. (to SILVIUS) You get a long and well-deserved stay in bed, with your new wife. (to TOUCHSTONE) Andyou I expect to be up fighting soon. The honeymoon will last two months, tops. And with that, you may all return to your dancing. Im bound for another fate."), ("Duke senior", "Stay, Jaques, stay here for a bit."), ("Jaques", "No, this fun is not for me. Ill wait for you in your cave, where you can tell me what you need from me."), ("Duke senior", "Lets proceed. Well begin the ceremony the way we hope it will endwith delight."), ("Rosalind", "You dont usually see a woman deliver an epilogue, but its no worse than seeing a man deliver the prologue. If its true that you dont need ivyBranches of ivy were hung in tavern windows to advertise the wine.ivy to sell good wine, then it should also be true that a good play doesnt need an epilogue. But they use good-quality ivy to sell good wine, and a good play is improved by a good epilogue. But then Im in a strange position, as I not only do not have a good epilogue, Im not sure this was a good play. Im not dressed like a beggar, so it wouldnt be becoming for me to beg. No, instead Ill bewitch you, and Ill start with the women. Women, in the name of the love you have for men, I demand that you like as much of this play as you feel like. Men, in the name of the women you loveand I can guess by your goofy smiles that none of you exactly hates themthe play will act as a nice toy for you and the ladiesIn Shakespeares day, boys played all the womens parts.ladies to share. If I actually were a woman, Id kiss all of you that have beards that pleased me, complexions that I liked, and breath that wasnt foul. And Im sure that all of you with nice beards, good faces, and sweet breath will, when I curtsy good night, give me a nice round of applause.")]