[("Egeon", "Continue, Solinus, and bring on my downfall. Give me the death sentence and end all my troubles."), ("Duke", "Merchant of Syracuse, stop your begging: Im not inclined to bend our laws. The hatred and discord between our two cities is the result of the bitter offenses your duke has perpetrated against the merchants of Ephesus, our well-behaved countrymen. Lacking the money to ransom themselves, these merchants were executed under your dukes harsh laws, and this has erased all looks of pity from my face. Ever since these deadly conflicts erupted between your violent countrymen and ours, both you Syracusians and we Ephesians have held serious councils and decided not to permit any travel between our two hostile towns. Nothe law goes further: if anyone born in Ephesus is seen in Syracuses marketplaces or if anyone born in Syracuse comes to Ephesus, that man dies, and his possessions will be confiscated by the Duke, unless he can raise a thousand marks to pay the penalty and ransom himself. Your possessions, even if we calculate their worth very generously, dont even add up to a hundred marks. Therefore, by law, you are condemned to die."), ("Egeon", "At least I have this comfort: when you finish speaking, my troubles will also end, at sundown."), ("Duke", "Well, Syracusian, tell usbrieflywhy you left your hometown and came to Ephesus."), ("Egeon", "Asking me to speak of my unspeakable griefsthats the hardest task you could impose on me. But Ill do it so that the world can see that it was natural emotion, and not a desire to break the law, that brought me to this fate. Ill tell you whatever my sorrow permits me to say. I was born in Syracuse, and I married a womana fortunate woman, except for having been married to me. And yet I would have made her happy had our luck not been so bad. I lived with her in joy, and our wealth increased from the prosperous journeys I frequently made to Epidamnum. Then my agent died and, obligated to care for my now untended goods abroad, I was drawn away from my wifes fond embraces. I hadnt been gone for six months when my wife, almost fainting with the pains of pregnancy, made arrangements to follow me, and she soon arrived safely where I was. She hadnt been there very long before she became the joyful mother of twin boys. It was strange: they looked so much alike that the only way to tell them apart was by their names. In the same hour, and in the same inn, a poor woman also delivered identical twin boys. Their parents had very little, so I bought the boys and raised them as companions and servants for our twin sons. My wife was more than a little proud of our two boys, and every day she would press me to return home. Reluctantly, I agreedalas! Too quickly, we boarded a ship. We had sailed a leagueleague = about three milesleague away from Epidamnum before the sea, which always obeys the winds' commands, gave any indication of danger. We didnt stay hopeful much longer: soon, the sky grew so dark that we were convinced we were going to die immediately. I could have accepted that, but I was forced by my wifes incessant weepingshe wept in advance for the things that she saw aheadand the piteous complaints of the sweet infantswho cried in imitation of the adults, without understanding whyto find a way to save us. Heres the best I could do: the crew of our ship had fled for safety in the lifeboats and left us to sink with the ship. My wife, who was very concerned about the younger of our twins, tied him to a spare mastthe kind that sailors use for just such a purpose. She tied one of the other twins to him. I did the same with the remaining two boys. With the children taken care of, my wife and I tied ourselves to opposite ends of the mast and floated off, obedient to the current. It carried us toward Corinthor so we thought. Eventually the sun, looking down upon the earth, burned off the threatening storm clouds. By the power of the suns wished-for light, the seas became calm. We saw two ships sailing toward us, one from Corinth, the other from Epidaurus. But before they reached uslet me say no more! Youll have to imagine what came next, based on what had already happened."), ("Duke", "No, keep going, old man; dont stop like that. For we may take pity on you, even if we cant pardon you."), ("Egeon", "Had the gods taken pity on us, I wouldnt be here calling them merciless. The two ships hadnt come within ten leagues of us when our ship hit a huge rock and split down the middle. As we were unjustly separated from each other, both my wife and I were left with something to delight in and something to sorrow over. For her partthe poor soul! Her half of the mast weighed less, but she was no luckier than I was: the wind carried her away more quickly. I saw them rescued by fishermen from Corinthor so I thought. After a while, another ship rescued me and the two boys who were with me. The sailors knew me, so they took good care of us. Our ship would have caught up with the other ship and taken back my wife and the children, but we sailed too slowly and their ship sped toward their home. So now youve heard how I was separated from everything I love. Its been my bad luck to remain alive long enough to be able to tell the sad stories of my own misfortunes."), ("Duke", "And for the sake of those you grieve for, do me a favor: tell me the full story of what has happened to you and them, up to this point."), ("Egeon", "My youngest son, whom I care about the most, turned eighteen and started to wonder about his twin brother. He asked me to let him take his attendantwho had also lost a brother, though he had kept his brothers name for himselfand go in search of him. I wanted to see my lost son as well, so I risked losing the one I loved in order to find the other. Ive spent five years in the remotest parts of Greece and roaming all over Asia. On my way home, I came to Ephesus. I have no hope of finding my boys here, but I will check every place that is inhabited by men. But that is where the story of my life must end. Id be happy to die if, in all my travels, I could prove that they are alive."), ("Duke", "Poor Egeon! Fate has decreed that you must endure the extremes of terrible misfortune. Believe me, if it werent against the law, my crown, my duty, and my position (which princes cannot disobey, not matter how they feel), my very soul would argue your case. But you are sentenced to death, and changing a sentence thats already been passed would dishonor my title. However, Ill do what I can for you. I will allow you one day to look for help in Ephesus. Call any friends you have. Beg or borrow to come up with the ransom. If you can, you live. If not, you are doomed to die. Jailer, take him into custody."), ("Jailer", "I will."), ("Egeon", "Hopeless and helpless, I go my way, merely putting off my fatal end."), ("First merchant", "So, tell people that youre from Epidamnumotherwise all your goods will be confiscated. Just today, a merchant from Syracuse was arrested for coming here. He couldnt afford the ransom, so by law, hell be put to death before the sun sets. Heres the money you asked me to hold."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Dromio, bring this money to the Centaur Inn, where were lodging, and wait there until I come. Itll be lunchtime within an hour. Until then, Ill walk around town, peruse the markets, and gaze upon the buildings, and then Ill return and sleep at the inn. Im stiff and weary from all this travel. Get going now."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Many men would take you literally and take off with all this money."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Hes a trustworthy servant. Often, when Im dulled by worry and melancholy, he lightens my mood with his merry pranks. Listen, will you walk with me around the town and then dine with me at the inn?"), ("First merchant", "Begging your pardon, but Ive been invited to see some merchants, who Im hoping to see a profit from. But if it pleases you, Ill meet you in the marketplace at five and will keep you company until bedtime. Right now, my pressing business calls me away."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Farewell till then. I will go lose myself, wandering up and down throughout the city."), ("First merchant", "Sir, I leave you to your own contentment."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "He leaves me to my own contentment, but thats the one thing I cannot find. Out in the world, Im like a drop of water, trying to find a drop that matches in the whole wide ocean. When that drop fails its taskunnoticed, inquisitiveit dissipates into the ocean and destroys itself. In order to find a mother and a brother, I too have lost myself, unhappily. Here comes the man who shares my birthday. What is it? How is it that youve come back so soon?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Back so soon? Too late is more like it. The chicken is burning, the pig is overcooked, the clock has already struck twelve, and my mistress has clocked me one on the cheek. Shes hot because lunch is cold; lunch is cold because youre not home; youre not home because youre not hungry; youre not hungry because youve eaten already. But we servantswho know how to properly fast and prayare being punished for your offenses today."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Hold on a second. Answer me this, please: wheres the money I gave you?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Oh, the sixpence you gave me last Wednesday to buy leather goods for my mistress? The saddle maker has it, sirI didnt keep it."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Im not in a joking mood. Tell me right now and stop fooling: wheres the money? Were strangers here. How dare you let such a large amount escape your keeping?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Please, sir; crack jokes over lunch. My mistress made me hurry here. If I go back without you, shell punish your faults by breaking my head open. I should think that your appetite would act like a clock (as mine does) and bring you home on its own, without the need for a messenger."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Thats enough, Dromio, please. This isnt a good moment for jokessave them till a happier time. Wheres the gold I gave you?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Gave me, sir? You didnt give me any gold."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Come on, you rogue. Quit joking. Tell me what youve done with the money I entrusted to you."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "The only thing that Ive been entrusted with was getting you from the market and bringing you to your house, the Phoenix, for lunch. My mistress and her sister are waiting for you."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Tell me where youve stowed away my money, or I swear Ill break that comical head of yours for goofing when Im not in the mood. Where are the thousand marksmarks = units of currencymarks you had from me?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I have some marks from you on my head and some of my mistresss marks on my body. But between the both of you, I dont have a thousand marks. If I gave those marks back to you, chances are you wouldnt take them as patiently as I did."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Your mistresss marks? What mistress do you have?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Your wife, sir. My mistress. At the Phoenix. The one whos waiting for you to come home for lunch and praying that youll get home quickly."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What, are you going to mock me to my face when I told you not to? There, take that, you scoundrel! (beats DROMIO OF EPHESUS)"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "What are you doing? Stop, for Gods sake! Well, if you dont, then Im out of here."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I swear, somehow the fool has been cheated out of all my money. They say that this town is full of deceptionillusionists that can fool the eye, dark sorcerers who can bewitch your mind, soul-killing witches who can disfigure your body, disguised swindlers, fast-talking fakers, and all kinds of other unchecked sins. If this is true, then Ill be leaving all the sooner. Ill go to the Centaur to find this servant of mineI fear that my money isnt safe."), ("Adriana", "Neither my husband nor the slave has returned, even though I sent the slave off running. Surely, Luciana, its already two o'clock."), ("Luciana", "Maybe some merchant at the marketplace invited him home for lunch. Sister, lets eat and stop worrying. A man is master of his own freedom: time is his only master, and when the right moment comes along, hell come or go as he pleases. If this is so, be patient, sister."), ("Adriana", "Why should men be more free than women?"), ("Luciana", "Because their business lies outside the home."), ("Adriana", "Listen, when I behave this way toward him, he hates it."), ("Luciana", "Oh, you should know that hes the bridlebridle = muzzlelike device used to restrain a horsebridle to your will."), ("Adriana", "Only a mule would agree to that."), ("Luciana", "Why, too much freedom leads to woe. Theres nothing under heaven that doesnt have its limits. The beasts on the earth, the fish in the sea, and the birds in the sky are all subject to the males of their species and under their control. Men, who are nearest to God, are the masters of all these creatures. And menthe lords of the wide world and the wild watery seas, gifted with intellectual sense and souls, greater than the fish and the birdsare the masters of women and their lords. Therefore, you should obey their wishes."), ("Adriana", "Its this servantlike mentality thats keeping you unmarried."), ("Luciana", "No, thats not itits because of what happens in the marriage bed."), ("Adriana", "But if you were married, youd wield some influence."), ("Luciana", "Before I learn how to love, Ill learn how to follow orders."), ("Adriana", "What if your husband strays elsewhere?"), ("Luciana", "Id endure it until he came home again."), ("Adriana", "Now thats patience! No wonder shes waiting to get married. Its easy to preach meekness when you have no reason to act otherwise. When were faced with a wretched person, bruised and crying with hardship, we try to get them to shush up. And yet, if we were suffering the same kind of pain, wed complain just as muchif not more! So you, who have no husband causing you problems, want to comfort me by preaching the virtue of feeble patience. But if you live to see yourself similarly denied your rights, this foolish patience will abandon you."), ("Luciana", "Well, Ill get married one day, just to see. Here comes your servantyour husband must be coming soon."), ("Adriana", "Tell me, is your tardy master close at hand?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No; but he came at me with two handsjust ask my earsi.e., He beat me on my ears.ears."), ("Adriana", "Did you talk to him? Do you know his plans?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Yes, yes, he told me his plans on my ears. Damn his handsI could barely understandDromio puns on understand, using the word to mean stand up under the force of the beating.understand it."), ("Luciana", "Did he speak so ambiguously that you couldnt get a feeling for what he meant?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No; he hit me very clearly and I felt his punches perfectly well. They were so dreadful, I could barely stand up under them."), ("Adriana", "But please, tell me: is he coming home? It seems he has taken great care to please his wife."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Why, mistress, my master is as angry as a bull with horns."), ("Adriana", "Horns? You bastard!"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I dont mean hes cuckoldcuckold = a man whose wife cheated on him; cuckolds were commonly depicted wearing hornscuckold mad. But he sure is angry. When I asked him to come home to lunch, he asked me for a thousand marks. Its lunchtime, I said. My gold, he said. The meats burning, I said. My gold, he said. Will you come home? I said. My gold, he said. Wheres the thousand marks I gave you, scoundrel? The pig, I said, is burned. My gold, he said. My mistress, I said. Damn your mistress! I dont know your mistress, the hell with your mistress!"), ("Luciana", "Who said that?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "My master said it. I dont know, he said, any house, wife, or mistress. My message, which was supposed to be delivered with my mouth, ended up being carried back home by my shoulders. Because at the end of it all, thats where he beat me."), ("Adriana", "Go back again, slave, and bring him home."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Go back again, to be beaten home again? For Gods sake, send somebody else."), ("Adriana", "Go back, slave, or Ill knock you one across the head."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "And hell add another knock across. With all these crosses, Ill have a holy head."), ("Adriana", "Get out of here, you blathering peasant! Bring your master home."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Do I treat you this roundly? Youre kicking me around like Im a football. You kick me out, he kicks me back. If I keep working for you, Im going to end up wrapped in leather, like a football."), ("Luciana", "Look at you! You have impatience all over your face."), ("Adriana", "He feels the need to grace all his other tramps with his presence while I sit at home starving for a smile from him. Has homely old age taken the alluring beauty from my poor cheeks? Thats because he has squandered my beauty. Am I boring? Have I lost my wit? If my conversation is no longer free and clever, thats because hes dulled itIm like a sharp tool hes blunted with a hard piece of marble. Is he charmed by their pretty clothes? Well, thats not my faulthes the one in charge of my spending. What faults can you find in me that werent first caused by him? One smile from him would repair my decayed beauty. But like an unruly deer, hes always trespassing past the park borders and straying away from home to feed in new pastures. I am nothing but a poor, used fool."), ("Luciana", "This jealousy is harming only you! Drive it out of you."), ("Adriana", "Only someone who doesnt feel this pain could tell me to ignore it. I know his eyes are worshiping some other woman, or why wouldnt he be here? Sister, you know he promised to give me a necklace. I would gladly do without that if he would only stay faithful to me. Even the best jewel can be tarnished. Gold, however, cant be corruptedthough it can be worn down if its touched too often. And no man with a reputation will tarnish that name with lies and bad behavior. Since my beauty no longer pleases my husband, Ill weep away whats left and then die with weeping."), ("Luciana", "How many infatuated people go mad with jealousy!"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "The gold I gave Dromio is safe and sound at the Centaur, and the inn host says that Dromio has left and is looking for me. I havent spoken to him since I sent him away from the marketplace earlier. Here he comes. So, sir. Are you over your ridiculous mood? If you like being hit, crack some more jokes. You never heard of the Centaur? You werent given any gold? Your mistress sent for me to come to dinner? The Phoenix is my house? Were you mad when you spoke to me so madly?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Said what, sir? When did I say all that?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Just now. Right here. Less than half an hour ago."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I havent seen you since you sent me to the Centaur with the gold you gave me."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You moron, you denied having any gold, and you told me about a mistress and a lunch. And I hope you realized I wasnt very happy about it."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Im glad to see you in such a merry mood. But whats the joke? Please, master, tell me."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What, are you mocking me to my face? You think Im joking? Here. Take that, and that! (beats DROMIO OF SYRACUSE)"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Stop, sir, for Gods sake! Now this joke has turned serious. Why are you doing this?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Just because I act familiar with you sometimes and let you fool around and joke with me, you try to take advantage of my affection. You pull pranks when Im in a serious mood. You know, foolish gnats come out in the sunshine, but they creep back into their holes when its dark. If you want to crack jokes, first check what kind of mood Im in and then adjust your behavior to suit me. If you dont learn this rule, Ill have to beat it into your sconce."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "You call it my sconceDromio puns on various meanings of sconce,including head, fortress (which Dromio imagines being attacked with a battering ram), and curtain.sconce? Id rather call it my head so youd stop battering it. If you keep pounding me, Ill need a sconce to wrap my head with, or else Ill have to keep my brain in my chest. But sir, why are you beating me?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Dont you know?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "All I know is that Im being beaten."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Should I tell you why?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Yes, and wherefore. You know the old saying: Every why has a wherefore."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Why first: for defying me. And then wherefore: for doing it a second time."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I dont think any mans ever been beaten for a why and wherefore that made so little sense. Well, thank you."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Thank me? For what?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Because you gave me something for nothing."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Next time Ill give you nothing for something. Is it lunchtime?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No. The meat lacks something that I have."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What would that be?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "A basting."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Well, then it will be dry."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "If it is, I suggest you dont eat it."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Why not?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Because it will make you angry, and that will get me another beating."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Well, learn to make jokes at the appropriate time. Theres a time for all things."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Before you got so angry, I never would have thought that."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Why not?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Ill tell you: its because of a law as plain as Father Times bald head."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Lets hear it."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "There may be a time for everything, but no man who has gone bald naturally can get his hair back."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Cant he get it by fine and recoveryFine and recovery = a legal term related to claiming ownership of private propertyfine and recovery?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Yes, he can pay a fine for a wig and then recover another mans lost hair."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Why is Time so cheap about giving out hair? After all, its plentiful in its growth."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Because animals are blessed with hair. With men, hes been stingy with hair, but he makes up for it by giving them intelligence."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "But a lot of men have more hair than intelligence."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "And not one of them is smart enough to stop himself from going bald."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "So then, you must think that hairy men are honest and simpleminded."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "The more simpleminded they are, the sooner they lose their hairIn the original Shakespearean line, there are a series of sexual puns and jokes about venereal diseases-venereal disease can cause hair loss; sound can mean healthy, thing can refer to a sexual organ, and falsing means deceptive.lose their hair. But they have a good time doing so."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Why?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Two reasons. And good ones, too."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Not good ones, please."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Then sure ones."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "No, not sure ones when were talking about something unsure."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Then certain ones."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Name them."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "One, so they can save the money they spent on hairstyling, and two, so that when their hair falls out it doesnt land in their dinner."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You were supposed to be proving that there isnt time for everything."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Right, and I did, sir. Theres no time to get back hair thats fallen out."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You didnt come up with a very good proof."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Then Ill change it to this: Father Time himself is bald, so for all time there will be bald men."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I knew youd come up with a baldBald can also mean trivial or lame.bald conclusion. But waitwhos that waving to us?"), ("Adriana", "Yes, yes, Antipholus: look bewildered and frown at me. Youve given away all your sweet looks to some other womanI am not Adriana nor your wife. There was a time when youd freely tell me that words were never music to your ear unless I said them, that objects never pleased your eye unless I showed them to you, that touches never pleased your hands unless they were my touches, and that food never tasted sweet to you unless I had prepared it. How is it, my husbandoh, how is itthat you have become a stranger to yourself? I say yourself because you are a stranger to me now, but when we are indivisible and united in one body, I am better than the best part of you. Ah, dont tear yourself away from me! For you should know, my love, that it would be as easy to let a drop of water fall into the churning sea and then fish it out again, unmingled and undiminished, as it would be to take yourself from me without taking me out of myself as well. How deeply would it cut you if you heard that I had been cheating on you and that my bodywhich is sworn for you onlyhad been contaminated by vile lust? Wouldnt you spit at me, and spurn me, and throw our marriage vows in my face? Wouldnt you tear the mark off my whorish foreheadWhores were commonly punished by being branded on the forehead.whorish forehead, cut the wedding ring off my finger, and swear to divorce me? I know you would, so go ahead. For I have, in fact, committed adultery, and my blood has been contaminated by lust. Because if marriage has made us one, then when you cheat, you poison my flesh as wellyour contagion makes me a prostitute. So stay faithful to me and return to your marriage bed. That way, my reputation will be protected and your honor will be intact."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Are you talking to me, fair woman? I dont know you. Ive only been in Ephesus for two hours. Your talk is as strange to me as your town. Im trying with all my wits to figure out what you mean, but I cant understand a word of it."), ("Luciana", "Shame on you, brother-in-law! Youve changed so much! Why are you treating my sister like this? She sent Dromio to bring you home for lunch."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Dromio?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Me?"), ("Adriana", "You. And this is what you told me he said: that he beat you and pretended his house wasnt his and I wasnt his wife."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Did you talk with this woman? What kind of scheme do you have going together?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Me, sir? I never saw her till now."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You liar! You said those exact things to me back in the marketplace."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I never talked with her in my life."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Then how does she know our names? By magic?"), ("Adriana", "How distasteful! That a man of your stature would scheme with his servant to upset me like this. It may be my fault that youve been avoiding me, but dont make things worse by treating me with contempt as well. Ill hang on your sleeve: youre an elm tree, my husband, and Im a vine. My weakness is enhanced by your strength, which gives me the strength to say this: the things that take you away from me are worthlessjust overgrown weeds in need of a trimming. They get into your system and infect you, feeding off your confusion."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Shes talking to me. Shes talking about me. What, was I married to her in a dream? Or am I asleep now and imagining all this? What is making our eyes and ears act so strangely? Until I know for sure, Ill humor her."), ("Luciana", "Dromio, tell the servants to prepare for lunch."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Oh, I wish I had my rosary! Ill cross myself. This must be some kind of fairyland. Oh, spite of spites! Were speaking with goblins, owls, and demons. If we dont obey them, theyll suck the life out of us or pinch us black and blue."), ("Luciana", "Why are you mumbling to yourself instead of answering the order I gave you? Dromio, you drone, you snail, you slug, you idiot!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Ive been transformed somehow, havent I, master?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I think your mind has been altered, and mine too."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No, master, Ive been changed in both mind and body."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Your body looks the same."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No, Im an apeape = a counterfeit (of myself); a foolape."), ("Luciana", "If youve changed into anything, its an ass."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Thats true. Shes riding me hard, and all I want to do is get out of here. I must be as stupid as an assthats why I dont know her, but she knows me."), ("Adriana", "All right, all right. I wont play the fool anymore and just cry while my husband and his man laugh at me. Come, husband, lets go to lunch. Dromio, guard the door. Husband, Ill eat with you in private today and hear your confession about all the pranks youve pulled. SirrahSirrah = term of address for a person of low social standingSirrah, if anyone asks where your master is, say hes out to lunch, and dont let anyone come in. Come, sister. Dromio, do a good job as doorkeeper."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Am I on earth, in heaven, or in hell? Asleep or awake? Crazy or sane? These people know me, but I dont know myself! Ill agree with them and keep with it, whatever happens."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Master, should I watch the door?"), ("Adriana", "Yes, and dont let anyone come in, or else Ill break your head."), ("Luciana", "Come come, Antipholus. Were late for lunch."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Signior Angelo, please excuse us. My wife gets angry when Im late. Heres the story well tell her: that I was with you at your shop, watching you make her necklace, and that youre going to deliver it tomorrow. But here comes a scoundrel who says he saw me at the marketplace and that I beat on him, told him Id given him a thousand marks in gold, and then lied about my wife and my house. You drunkard, what was that all about?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Say what you want, but I know what I know. You beat me at the marketplace, and I have the bruises to prove it. If my skin were paper and your punches were ink, you could read the beating on my body."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I think youre an ass."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Honestly, it sure looks that way, judging by all the beatings and the bad treatment Im getting. Since Im an ass, I ought to kick like one. Then youd be scared of me and keep away."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Signior Balthasar, you look upset. I hope the good meal Im going to give you will show the goodwill I bear you and how welcome you are."), ("Balthasar", "Your delicacies arent worth as much to me as your welcome is."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Signior Balthasar, all the welcome in the world cant compare to a good meal, whatever kind of food it might be."), ("Balthasar", "Good foods not a big dealeveryone can afford that."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "And everyone can say welcome, which is just a word."), ("Balthasar", "A little food and a huge welcome makes a joyous feast."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Sure, to a cheap host and an even cheaper guest. But look, even if my dishes are poor, eat them with my best wishes. You may come across better food, but not a warmer welcome. Whats this? My door is locked. (to DROMIO) Tell them to let us in."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Maud, Bridget, Marian, Ciceley, Gillian, Ginn!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) Dope, moron, eunuch, fool, idiot, clown! Either get away from the door or sit yourself down there! What, are you trying to summon women with your spellsis that why youre calling out so many names? Isnt one enough for you? Get away with you!"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "What clown did they hire as the new doorkeeper? My master is standing out in the street!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) Then he should go back where he came from so he doesnt catch a cold."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Whos in there? Hey, open the door!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) Right. Give me one good reason and I will."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "A reason? So I can eat lunch. I havent eaten today."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) And you wont eat here today. Come again some other time."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Who do you think you are, keeping me out of my own house?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) Im the doorkeeper for the moment, and my name is Dromio."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "You jerk! Youve stolen both my job and my name! True, the job never did me much good, and my name only ever got me in trouble. If you were the Dromio in my shoes today, you would have felt like you traded your head for a target and your name for the name of Ass. LUCEIn a later printing of the play, the character of Luce was renamed Nell. LUCE (from offstage) Whats all the commotion, Dromio? Whos at the door?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Luce, let my master in."), ("Luce", "(from offstage) No way, hes too late. Tell your master that."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Oh, Lord, this makes me laugh! Ill come at you with the old proverb: Should I make myself at home?"), ("Luce", "(from offstage) Ill come at you with another: Id like to see you try it!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) If your names Luce, then I say: Luce, good answer!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Listen up, you slave. Are you going to let us in?"), ("Luce", "(from offstage) I was going to ask you that question."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) But you already answered no."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Come, help me bang on the door, master. Well done! We answered them, blow for blow."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "You good-for-nothing, let me in."), ("Luce", "(from offstage) Says who?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Master, knock hard upon the door."), ("Luce", "(from offstage) He can knock till it hurts."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "If I break the door down, slave, youll be sorry for this."), ("Luce", "(from offstage) Why are we putting up with all this? The towns got a pair of stocksstocks = an instrument of public punishment. Offenders had their hands and feet locked in a wooden frame and were left to be mocked and abused.stocks."), ("Adriana", "(from offstage) Whos making such a ruckus at the door?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) I swear, this towns plagued by troublesome boys."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Is that you, wife? You could have come sooner."), ("Adriana", "(from offstage) Your wife, you scoundrel? Get away from the door."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "If she punishes you, master, shes sure to punish me."), ("Angelo", "It looks like were not going to get food or welcome here."), ("Balthasar", "We argued about which was best, and now we wont get either one."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Master, your guests are just standing here. Tell them theyre welcome."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Theres something strange in the air thats keeping us from getting in."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "And if your clothes were as thin as mine, youd really feel the air. The food inside is warm, but youre out here freezing. It would make any man as mad as a bull to be betrayed like this."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Go get me something I can use to break down the door."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) Break anything here and Ill break your head."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Ill break words with you, sir. And since words are just wind, Ill be breaking wind right in your face."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) It seems youre the one who needs to be broken. Be off with you, you dog!"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Ive had enough of this off with you! Come on, let me in!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(from offstage) Of coursewhen birds have no feathers and fish have no fins."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Well, Im going to break in. Go get me a crow."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "A crow without feathers? Master, do you really mean that? He said when fish have no fins, and you came back with a bird with no feathers. (to DROMIO OF SYRACUSE) If a crow gets us in, sirrah, then you and I will have a crow to pluck togethercrow to pluck together = score to settle with each othercrow to pluck together."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I meant a crowbar. Get going already."), ("Balthasar", "Be patient, sir! Dont do this! This will hurt your reputation and make your wife, whos innocent, look suspicious. Look, youve known her a long time. Shes wise, serious, mature, and modest. All this suggests that she has a good reason for doing this to you. Lets assume that she has a reason, which you dont know yet: have faith that shell eventually explain why she shut the doors on you today. Listen to me. Be patient and leave, and well all go to the Tiger for lunch. In the evening, come back alone and figure out this strange resistance. If you get violent and break in now, in broad daylight, people will talk about it. The common mob will presume things, and your untarnished reputation will be damagedand that damage will last long after youre dead. Slander passes from generation to generation, and once it sticks to a family, its there forever."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Youre rightIll go quietly. And even though Im in a distasteful mood, Ill work on being happy. I know a terrific wench. Shes beautiful and charminga little wild, but also gentle. Well eat at her place. My wife has accused me more than once of misbehaving with this woman. I swear to her that I havent, but it doesnt change anything. Well go to her place for lunch. (to ANGELO) Go get the necklace, which Im sure is done by now. Bring it to the Porcupine, where this woman is. Ill to give it to her, just to spite my wife. Hurry, good sir. Since my own doors refuse to admit me, Ill knock somewhere else and see if they turn me away as well."), ("Angelo", "Ill meet you there in an hour."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Do that. This little prank of hers is going to cost me."), ("Luciana", "Have you completely forgotten your duty as a husband? Antipholus, your marriage is still fresh and new, like the springtimehave the young shoots of your love already started to wither? Is the building of your love already in ruins? If you married my sister for her wealth, then for her wealths sake, treat her with more kindness. Or if your affection has already strayed to another woman, at least be stealthy about it. Hide your false love, blindfold yourself so my sister cannot read your faithlessness in your eyes. Watch what you say, and dont let your own words give away your shame. Look sweet and act kindlybe attractive in your disloyalty. Disguise your misbehavior as integrity, and behave properly even if your heart is tainted. Though you are sinful, carry yourself like a holy saint. Be false in secret: why does she need to know? What foolish thief brags about his crimes? Its doubly wrong to cheat on your wife and then let her see the offense in your eyes. When you do something shameful, its possible to put a good spin on it, but bad deeds are made worse by speaking of them. Alas, poor women! Were so gullible, we believe it when you say you love us. Even if you love someone else in your heart, make it appear as if you love us. We follow in your orbit, and you have the power to move us. So, my sweet brother-in-law, go inside. Comfort my sister, cheer her up, call her wife. Its a holy thing to lie a little when sweet flattery can smooth over trouble."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Sweet mistressI dont know what other name to give you, or how youve figured out mineyou seem as wise and graceful as the earth is wonderful and divine. Teach me how I should think and speak. My understanding is clumsy and human, riddled with errorsit is feeble, shallow, and weak. Reveal to me the hidden meaning of your words. Why would you have me betray the truth of my emotions and make my love wander in some other direction? Are you a god? Are you trying to remake me? Go ahead, Ill yield to your power. But if I am myself, then I know for sure that your weeping sister is not my wife. I dont owe her any dutyits you that I submit to. Oh, sweet mermaid, dont command me to drown myself in the flood of your sisters tears. Sirensirens = mermaids of Greek myth who lured men to their death with their singingSiren, use your song to make me love you instead, and I will obey. Spread your golden hair over the silver waves, and I will lie down in it like a bed. If a man could dieTo die also has the suggestion to orgasm.die in that glorious fantasy, then I think he would benefit by dying. Love is light and therefore floatsif my love is false, let me sink!"), ("Luciana", "Are you insane, talking like this?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Not insane, but amazed. I dont know how. In the original Shakespearean line, mated can mean both overthrown and married."), ("Luciana", "Your eyes are playing tricks on you."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Thats because you are near me, and youre as dazzling as the sun."), ("Luciana", "Train your eye on what you should be looking at, and youll see straight again."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Sweet love, Id rather close my eyes than look at darkness."), ("Luciana", "Why are you calling me love? Call my sister that."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Your sisters sister."), ("Luciana", "Thats my sister."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "No, its you: my better half. My eyes clear vision, my hearts most precious desire. My food, my fortune, my sweetest hope, my heaven on earth, and my entrance to heaven."), ("Luciana", "My sister is all those things, or else she should be."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Call yourself your own sister, because I want you. I will love you, and with you Ill spend my life. You have no husband yet, and I have no wife. Give me your hand."), ("Luciana", "Oh, wait, sir. Stay here. Ill go get my sister and see what she thinks."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Whats going on, Dromio? Where are you running so fast?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Do you know me? Am I Dromio? Am I your servant? Am I myself?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You are Dromio, you are my servant, and you are yourself."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Im an ass, Im a womans servant, and Im beside myself."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What womans servant? What do you mean, beside yourself?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Ill tell you. Besides belonging to myself, I belong to a woman. A woman who says she owns me, who wont leave me alone, and who wants me."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "How does she claim to own you?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "The same way a person would claim to own his horse. And she wants me as a beast. I dont mean that she wants me because Im a beast, but that she, who is a beast, says I belong to her."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Whats she like?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "She has a very significant body. You couldnt even talk about it without saying, I beg your pardon.i.e., youd have to say I beg your pardon when talking about her body because youd have to use obscene language to discuss it. I beg your pardon. My luck would be running thin if I ended up with her, although shed make it a fat marriage."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What do you mean, a fat marriage?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Sir, she works in the kitchen, so shes oily. The only thing I could do with her is to use all that oil as fuel in a lamp and then use that light to run away by. Her clothes are so oily, theyd burn through the longest winter. Even if she lives till the end of the world, shed keep burning an additional week."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Whats her skin like?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Its dark, like my shoe. But its not as clean. Youd be up to your ankles in how filthy it is."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Some water will fix that."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No, its permanent. Noahs flood wouldnt be enough water to clean it."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Whats her name?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Nell. But an ellAn ell is a unit of measure forty-five inches long.ell and three-quarters wouldnt be long enough to measure her waist."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "So shes wide?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Her hips are as wide as she is tall. Shes round, like a globe. I could use her like a map to find out where countries are."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What part of her body is Ireland?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Her bottom. Its near the bogsA bog is a kind of swamp found in Ireland, but its also a slang term for toilet.bogs."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Wheres Scotland?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "In the palm of her hand, which is covered in callusesShakespeares audience would hear barren ness. A ness in Scotland is a wide-open spaceNells calloused palms remind Dromio of the rough, empty terrain of Scotland.calluses."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Wheres France?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "In her foreheadAt the time this play was written, there had recently been a rebellion against the heir to Frances throne. Since Nell is going bald, Dromio puns that her forehead is like France, rebelling against her hair (or heir).forehead, which is enormous because of her receding hairline."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Wheres England?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I thought her teeth might be like the white cliffsThe White Cliffs of Dover are located in Southern England, along the English Channel. The cliffs are covered in lime, which renders them white in color.white cliffs, but theyre dark and stained. So I guess its her chin, which is separated from her forehead by all the sweat on her face."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Wheres Spain?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Honestly, I didnt see it, but I felt it in her hot breath."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Wheres America and the West Indies?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Oh, sir, on her nose, which is covered with pimples, sores, and red welts. It points straight down at her mouth, which catches everything that drips from it. exotic jewelsIn Shakespeares time, America and the West Indies were known for having exotic jewels.exotic jewels"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Wheres Belgium and the NetherlandsThe Netherlands were known as the Low Countries. Netherlands?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Oh, sir, I didnt look down there. In conclusion, this witch said I was hers. She called me Dromio and swore Id promised to marry her. She knew private things about my body, like the birthmark on my shoulder, the mole on my neck, and the huge wart on my left arm. I was terrified, and I ran away from her as if she were a witch. And I think that if I hadnt been brave and strong, she would have turned me into a dog and made me her slave."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Get goinghustle over to the port. If theres enough wind for a ship to sail out tonight, I wont spend tonight in this town. If a ships leaving, come to the marketplace. Ill wait there for you. If everyone here knows us but we dont know anybody, its time, I think, for us to pack our bags and take off."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Ill run from this woman who claims to be my wife as fast as Id run from a bear."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Everyone who lives here is a witch. That means its high time for me to go. That woman who claims I am her husbandI loathe her in my soul. But her gorgeous sister, whos so lovely and gracious, whos so charming and who speaks so well, almost makes me want to stay here against my better judgment. Id better stop up my ears against this sirens song."), ("Angelo", "Master Antipholus"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Yes, thats my name."), ("Angelo", "I know that, sir. Look, heres the necklace. I was on my way to take it to you at the Porcupine, but it took a little longer to finish than I thought it would."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What do you want me to do with this?"), ("Angelo", "Whatever you wantI made it for you."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Made it for me? I didnt order it."), ("Angelo", "You didnot just once or twice, but twenty times. Take it home and make your wife happy. Ill come over at suppertime and you can pay me for it then."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You should take the money now. If you dont, you might never see the money or the necklace ever again."), ("Angelo", "Youre a funny man, sir. Take care."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I dont know what to think about this. But what I do think is that nobody in his right mind would refuse to accept such a beautiful necklace when somebody offers it. I guess theres no need to be a thief in Ephesus. People come up to you in the street and hand you gold. Ill go wait for Dromio at the marketplace. If any ships are sailing, Ill get right on one."), ("Second merchant", "Youve owed me this money since the Pentecost holiday. I havent pressed you for it, and I wouldnt now except that Im going to Persia and I need money for the trip. So pay me now, or Ill have this officer arrest you."), ("Angelo", "Antipholus owes me the exact amount that I owe you. Just before I ran into you, I gave him a necklace. At five o'clock hes going to pay me for it. Please, come to his house with me. Ill pay what I owe you then and say thank you as well."), ("Officer", "He saves you the trouble: look, here he comes."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "(to DROMIO) Im going to the jewelers house. You go buy a piece of ropeIll whip my wife and her cohorts for locking me out of my own house. Wait a minute! I see the jeweler. Go, be gone with you. Buy a rope and bring it to me."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I buy myself a thousand beatings a year if I buy a rope. Theres no consensus about the exact meaning of this obscure line, which is an expression of Dromios frustration."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "(to ANGELO) Good luck to any man who trusts you. I swore that you would come with the necklace, but neither you nor the necklace showed up. Perhaps you were concerned about being chained to me and so decided not to come."), ("Angelo", "All joking aside, heres an invoice spelling out exactly how many carats the necklace weighs as well as the quality of the gold and the workmanship. The total due is about three ducats more than I owe this gentleman. Please, pay him immediately. Hes about to leave on a trip and hes waiting for the money."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I dont have the cash right now. Besides, I have some business to take care of in town. Good signior, take this stranger to my house. Bring the necklace with you, and tell my wife to pay you the amount due. I might make it back in time to meet you."), ("Angelo", "So youll bring the necklace to her yourself?"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "No. You bring it in case I cant make it."), ("Angelo", "All right, sir, I will. Do you have it with you?"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "If I dont, I hope you do. Or else youll leave without your money."), ("Angelo", "Listen, please, give me the necklace. This gentlemans ready to go. The wind is right and its high tide, and Ive delayed him a long time already."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Good Lord! Youre using this as an excuse for not showing up at the Porcupine like you promised. I should have reprimanded you then for not bringing it, but you started fighting with me first."), ("Second merchant", "Its getting late. Please, sir, hurry up."), ("Angelo", "Antipholus, you hear how the man pleads with me. Give me the necklace!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Give it to my wife, and get your money."), ("Angelo", "Come, come. You know I gave it to you just now. Send the necklace to her, or send me with a token that will authorize her to pay me."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Damn it, this isnt funny. Wheres the necklace? Let me see it."), ("Second merchant", "My business cannot wait for this delay. (to ANTIPHOLUS) Good sir, tell me if youre going to pay me. If not, Ill turn this man over to the officer."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Pay you? What should I pay you?"), ("Angelo", "The money you owe me for the necklace."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I owe you nothing until I receive the necklace."), ("Angelo", "You know that I gave it to you a half hour ago."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "You gave me nothing, and you wrong me by saying you did."), ("Angelo", "You wrong me even more, sir, by denying it. Consider how poorly this reflects on me."), ("Second merchant", "Well, officer, I charge you to arrest him."), ("Officer", "I will. (to ANGELO) And I order you to obey me, in the name of the duke."), ("Angelo", "This harms my reputation. Either pay this sum, Antipholus, or Ill have this officer arrest you."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Pay for something I never got? Go ahead, you fool. Arrest me if you dare."), ("Angelo", "Officer, heres your feearrest him. I would have my own brother arrested if he treated me so terribly."), ("Officer", "Youre under arrest, sir. You hear the charges."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Ill obey you until I can make bail. But Angelo, youll pay for this, even if it costs all the precious metals in your jewelry shop."), ("Angelo", "Sir, the laws of Ephesus will be on my side, and youll be embarrassed. Im certain of it."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Master, theres a ship from Epidamnum thats going to set sail as soon as its owner gets on board. Ive left our luggage on the ship, and I bought the oil, balm, and liquor you wanted. The ship is ready, the wind is up, and the sailors are only waiting for their owner and for you."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "What are you, a madman? You annoying idiot, what Epidamnum ship is waiting for me?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "A ship you sent me to find, to book passage out of here."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "You drunken slave, I sent you for a rope, and I told you what to do with it."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Yeah, rightyou sent me to get whipped. You sent me to the port to find a ship."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Ill debate this with you later, and then Ill teach you to listen more carefully. Go to Adriana, you scoundrel, and quickly. Give her this key, and tell her that theres money in the desk thats covered with a Turkish tapestry. Have her send it to me. Tell her that Ive been arrested and the money will be my bail. Hurry, you slave! Go! Officer, take me to prison until the money comes."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "To Adriana? Thats where we had lunch. Where that sweetheart said I was her husband! Shes too much for me to handle. But I must go there, against my will: servants must fulfill their masters' wishes."), ("Adriana", "Oh, Luciana, did he tempt you like that? Could you tell from his face if he was serious? Yes or no? Did he look flushed or pale? Sad or happy? Could you tell from his looks what he was feeling in his heart?"), ("Luciana", "First, he said you had no right to him."), ("Adriana", "He meant he did nothing right for mewhich is true, unfortunately."), ("Luciana", "Then he swore he was a stranger here."), ("Adriana", "And thats truehe is being strange. And yet he lies as well, for hes no stranger."), ("Luciana", "Then I pleaded for you."), ("Adriana", "And what did he say?"), ("Luciana", "That he felt for me the love that I begged him to feel for you."), ("Adriana", "How did he try to persuade you to love him?"), ("Luciana", "With words thatif they were spoken honestlymight have moved me. First, he praised my beauty, then my eloquence."), ("Adriana", "Did you praise him as well?"), ("Luciana", "Have some patience, please."), ("Adriana", "I cannot and I will not keep quiet. My voice will have its way, even if my heart cant. He is misshapen, crooked, old, and withered. His face is ugly, and his body is even worseall shapeless, everywhere. He is vicious, mean, foolish, blunt, unkind. His body is deformed, and his mind is worse."), ("Luciana", "Then why be jealous of a person like that? When an evil thing has been lost, no one cries."), ("Adriana", "Oh, but I think of him more highly than I say I doand I wish he looked worse in other womens eyes. Im like a lapwing, creating a diversion in order to distract predators from my nest. My heart adores him, even though my tongue curses him."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Here! Go! The desk! Money! Come on, now! Hurry!"), ("Luciana", "How did you lose your breath?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "By running fast."), ("Adriana", "Wheres your master, Dromio? Is he all right?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No, hes in a place worse than hell. A devil in a tough uniform has hima man whose heart is as hard as steel. A fiend and a goblin, pitiless and rough. A wolfno, even worsea man all in tough leather. A backbiting friend, one who grabs people, who patrols the streets and passageways. A hunting dog that runs in the opposite direction of its prey, yet can follow the scent of the hunt. A man who puts people away before the verdict is announced."), ("Adriana", "Speak, man, whats the matter?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I dont know what the matter is, but hes been arrested for it."), ("Adriana", "What? Hes been arrested? Tell me, who had him arrested?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I dont know who had him arrested, but the man that arrested him was in a suit of leather. Mistress, will you send him bail? The money in the desk?"), ("Adriana", "Get it, sister. I dont understand it. How could he be in debt without me knowing it? Tell me, was he arrested because of a bandA band is a bond or debt. Dromio hears another meaning: a band of fabric.band?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Not for a band, but for something stronger: a necklace, a necklace! Dont you hear it ring?"), ("Adriana", "What, the necklace?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No, no, the bell. Its time for me to go. It was two o'clock when I left him, and now its one."), ("Adriana", "Times running backward? Ive never heard of that."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Oh, sure. When an hourIn Shakespeares time, hour could sound like ower (someone who owes money) or even whore, both of whom would run from policemen.hour meets a cop, it turns and runs in fear."), ("Adriana", "Times not the one in debt. Your logic is so foolish."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Time is always bankrupt: it owes more than it can ever pay back in a season. And Times a thief, toodont you know the old saying, Time steals along? So if Time is in debt and also a thief, and a cop comes, dont you think Time would turn back an hour?"), ("Adriana", "Heres the money, Dromio. Take it to your master and bring him home immediately. Come, sister, my imagination is too much for me: it both comforts me and depresses me."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Every person I meet greets me like an old friend, and every one of them knows my name. Some of them give me money, some invite me places, some thank me for the kind things Ive done for them, some try to sell me things. Just now a tailor showed me fabrics he bought especially for me and then started to take my measurements. These are tricks of the imagination, and this place is filled with magicians."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Heres the money you wanted, master. Hey, have you gotten rid of that AdamDromio calls the officer Adam because, after Adam and Eve were expelled from Eden, Adam wore clothing made of skins, llike the officers leather uniform. Adam?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "What gold is this? Whos this Adam you speak of?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Not the Adam from the garden of Eden, but the Adam from the jailhouse. The one that wears leather clothes. The one that grabbed you and arrested you."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I dont know what youre talking about."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No? Its plain enough. The Adam who looks like a cello, in a big leather case. The one who gives tired people arrest. The one who gives ruined men new suitslaw suits. The one whos determined to do more damage with his nightstick than a soldier does with his pike."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You mean an officer?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Yes, the leader of the team; the one that gets you if you cant pay a debt; the one who assumes people are always going to bed and says to them, Have arrest."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Well, sir, stop your joking there. Are any ships leaving tonight? Can we go?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Why, sir, I told you an hour ago that the good ship Expedition was leaving tonight, but then the officer got you, and you decided to wait for the little rowboat Delay. Heres the bail money you sent me to get."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "This fellows gone mad, and so have I. Were in some kind of dream world. Please, somebody, get us out of here!"), ("Courtesan", "Good to see you, Master Antipholus. I see youve met with the jeweler. Is that chain youre wearing the one you promised to give to me?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Get away from me, Satan! Dont try to tempt me!"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Master, is this Satans mistress?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Shes the devil."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "No, shes worse: shes the devils mother, and she comes to us disguised as an easy wench. And thats why some women say, God damn me, which is the same thing as saying, God make me an easy wench. The Bible says the devil looks like an angel of light. But fire also gives off light, and fire will burn you. In other words, easy wenches will burn you. Keep away from this one."), ("Courtesan", "You and your servant are very funny, sir. Will you come with me? Can we finish our lunch?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Master, if you eat with her, bring really long silverware."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Why, Dromio?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Because of the old saying: He who eats with the devil needs a very long spoon. You need to keep far away from them."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "(to COURTESAN) Get away, you demon! You talk about eating? Youre a sorceress, like everyone else here. Ill conjure you, like a spell: get away from me."), ("Courtesan", "Give me back the ring I gave you at lunch, or give me the necklace you promised in exchange. Then Ill be gone, sir, and stop troubling you."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Some devilsIn Revelation 20:1, an angel descends from heaven with a chain to bind the devil with.devils ask for nothing more than nail clippings, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin, a nut, or a cherry pit. But this ones greedy: she wants a necklace. Be wise, master. If you give it to her, shell shake the chain and frighten us, like the angel in the Bible."), ("Courtesan", "Now listen, either give me my ring or give me the necklace. I hope youre not trying to cheat me."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Be gone, witch! Come, Dromio, lets go."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Accusing us of cheating is like the proud peacock accusing someone else of pride. Mistress, you know about that."), ("Courtesan", "Antipholus has gone insane, no question about it. If not, hed never behave like this. He has a ring of mine, worth forty ducats, and he promised to give me a necklace in exchange for it. Now he wont give me either. The reason I think hes insane, besides the way he just acted, is that he told a senseless story over lunch about being locked out of his own house. His wife probably did it on purpose because she knows what kind of fits hes having. I must go to his house and tell his wife that he came bursting into my place like a lunatic and stole my ring. Its my best option: I cant afford to lose forty ducats."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Dont worry, man, I wont try to escape. When its time for me to be freed, Ill pay you the fee youre entitled to for arresting me. My wifes in a perverse mood today. Shell be suspicious when the messenger tells her that I was arrested. I tell you, this will make her angry when she hears about it. Heres my servant. I think hes got the money. Hello there, sir! Do you have what I told you to get?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Yes. And this rope will take care of everybody, I guarantee it."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "But wheres the money?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Why, sir, I spent it on this rope."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "You idiot! Five hundred ducats for a rope?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I can get you five hundred ropes for that price."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Why did I just send you home?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "To get a piece of rope. And here I am, with that piece."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "And Ill use that piece of rope to welcome you with. (beats DROMIO OF EPHESUS)"), ("Officer", "Good sir, calm down."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "You should tell me to calm downIm the one whos suffering here."), ("Officer", "Hold your tongue."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No, you should tell him to hold his hands!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "You son of a bitch, senseless villain!"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I wish I were senseless, sir, so that I wouldnt feel your punches!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "The only thing you can sense are punchesjust like an ass."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I am an ass, indeed: you can tell by my long ears. Ive served this man from the moment I was born until this very instant, and all Ive ever gotten from him are bruises. When Im cold, his beatings keep me warm. When Im hot, they keep me cool. He wakes me up by beating me, makes me stand by beating me, sends me out of the house and welcomes me back by beating me. Seriously, I carry beatings around with me like a beggar woman carries her baby. I figure that once hes crippled me, Ill beg by showing off my beatings."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Thats enough. My wifes coming."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Mistress, think about your endbeware of your death! Or as the parrot says: Beware of the ropes end, and watch out for a hanging."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Are you going to keep talking? (beats DROMIO OF"), ("Ephesus)", ("Courtesan", "Now what do you think? Your husbands mad, isnt he?"), ("Adriana", "This terrible behavior proves it. Doctor Pinch, youre an exorcist. If you can bring him back to his senses, Ill pay you whatever you demand."), ("Luciana", "Alas, how passionate and angry he looks!"), ("Courtesan", "Look! Hes trembling in his fit!"), ("Pinch", "Give me your hand. Let me take your pulse."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Heres my hand. Let it feel your ear. (he strikes PINCH)"), ("Pinch", "Satan! You are living inside this man! I order you to release him through my prayers and to return immediately to the darkness you came from. I demand this in the name of all the saints in heaven."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Shut up, you doddering old wizard! Im not possessed!"), ("Adriana", "Oh, I wish you werent, you poor, frightened soul."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Listen, hussyis this man one of your customers? Did this fool with the yellow face feast and celebrate in my house today while the guilty doors shut in my face and locked me out of my own house?"), ("Adriana", "Oh, husband, God himself knows you ate at home. I wish you had stayed there, avoiding these scandals and this public embarrassment!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Ate at home? You there, rogue, what do you have to say about that?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I swear, sir, you did not eat at home."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "My doors were locked and I was shut out, right?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "By God, your doors were locked and you were shut out."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "And she screamed at me, right?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No lieshe screamed at you."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "And her cook yelled, mocked, and teased me, right?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "She sure did. The kitchen girl mocked you."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "And I departed in a rage, right?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "You truly did. My body can prove it because it felt the power of your anger."), ("Adriana", "(to PINCH) Should I try to soothe him by pretending to agree with his lies?"), ("Pinch", "Good idea. His servant here has figured out that agreeing is a good way to cope with his anger."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "(to ADRIANA) You convinced the jeweler to arrest me."), ("Adriana", "For goodness sake, I sent money to bail you out. I gave it to Dromio, who rushed in for it."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "You gave money to me? She might have given me her best wishes, master, but she didnt give me one scrap of money."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Didnt you go to her for a purse full of ducats?"), ("Adriana", "He did, and I gave it to him."), ("Luciana", "And I saw her do it."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I was sent for a rope! God and the rope maker are my witnesses!"), ("Pinch", "Mistress, both the man and his master are possessed. I can tell by how pale and deathlike they look. We must tie them up and leave them in some dark room."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "(to ADRIANA) Tell me! Why did you lock me out today? (to DROMIO OF EPHESUS) And why are you denying that you received the gold?"), ("Adriana", "My sweet husband, I did not lock you out."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "And my sweet master, I received no gold. But I agree, sir, that we were locked out."), ("Adriana", "You lying villain! Both those statements are false."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "You lying slut, everything you say is false. Youre scheming with some damned gang, trying to make a fool of me. With my own bare hands, Ill scratch out your eyes, which want to see me humiliated."), ("Adriana", "Tie him up! Tie him up! Keep him away from me!"), ("Pinch", "We need more help! The devil in him is strong!"), ("Luciana", "Oh, my, poor man! How pale and listless he looks!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Are you trying to kill me? jailer, im your prisoner. are you going to let them break me out of jail?"), ("Officer", "Gentlemen, let go of him. Hes my prisoner and you cant have him."), ("Pinch", "Tie up the servant, for he is mad as well."), ("Adriana", "What are you doing, you stupid officer? Do you take some kind of pleasure in seeing a sick man harm himself?"), ("Officer", "Hes my prisoner. If I let him go, Ill have to pay his bail fees myself."), ("Adriana", "Ill pay you. Take me to the man my husband is in debt to. Once I find out what the debt is for, Ill pay it. Doctor Pinch, please have him brought to my house. What a horrible day!"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "What a horrible slut!"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Master, Im all tied up for you."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Shut up already, you scoundrel! Why are you trying to provoke me?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Youd rather be tied up for nothing? Act insane, good master: scream out, The devil!"), ("Luciana", "Oh my God! The poor soulshow strangely they talk!"), ("Adriana", "Get him out of here. Sister, come with me. Now tell me. Who had him arrested?"), ("Officer", "Angelo, the jeweler. Do you know him?"), ("Adriana", "I know him. How much does my husband owe?"), ("Officer", "Two hundred ducats."), ("Adriana", "For what?"), ("Officer", "For a necklace your husband had him make."), ("Adriana", "He said he was going to buy me a necklace, but I never saw it."), ("Courtesan", "Today your husband came to my place, completely furious. He took my ring, which I just saw on his finger, by the way. Right after that, I saw him with a necklace."), ("Adriana", "Maybe so, but I never saw it. Jailer, bring me to the jeweler. I need to hear the truth about all this."), ("Luciana", "God have mercy on us! They broke loose!"), ("Adriana", "And theyve got their swords unsheathed! Lets call for help and get them tied up again!"), ("Officer", "Lets get out of here! Theyll kill us!"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "It looks like these witches are scared of swords."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "The one who claims to be your wife just ran away from you."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Go to the Centaur and get our stuff. I wish we were safely on board our ship already."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Look, lets stay here tonight. Nobody will hurt us. You see how kind everyone is to us, how they just hand us gold. I think this country is so kind that if it werent for that mountain of insanity that wants to marry me, I could find it in my heart to stay here and become a witch myself."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I wouldnt stay here tonight for the entire town. Go and get our stuff onto the ship."), ("Angelo", "Im sorry that I delayed you, sir. But even though he denies it, I swear he got the necklace from me."), ("Second merchant", "Whats this mans reputation like here in the city?"), ("Angelo", "People think very highly of him. The merchants give him unlimited credit. Hes well beloved, second to none in the city. Id trust him with everything I own."), ("Second merchant", "Speak more quietly: I think hes coming this way."), ("Angelo", "Youre right. And that necklace around his neck is the very one he swore he didnt have! Good sir, stay close to me. Ill speak to him. Signior Antipholus, I cant believe youd put me to this kind of shame and troublenot to mention the scandal youve brought on yourself. You swore I never gave you the necklace, but now youre wearing it openly. Not only has your lie cost you money, shame, and imprisonment, but youve also mistreated this honest friend of mine. If it hadnt been for this dispute, he would have already hoisted sail and left for sea. You got that necklace from me: can you deny that?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I got it from youI never said I didnt."), ("Second merchant", "Yes, you did, sir. In fact, you swore it."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Who heard me do that?"), ("Second merchant", "My own ears heard it, and you know it. To hell with you! Its a shame that you walk the streets with all the honest men."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "Youre a villain to say this about me. Ill prove that Im an honest man and a man of honor if you dare defend yourself."), ("Second merchant", "I do dare, and I say that you are the villain."), ("Adriana", "(to SECOND MERCHANT) Wait! Dont hurt him, for Gods sake! Hes crazy! Somebody approach him and take away his sword. Tie up Dromio, too, and take them to my house."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Run, master, run. For Gods sake, find a house to duck into. This looks like an abbey. Go in, or were done for."), ("Abbess", "Be quiet, people! Why have you come here in such a mob?"), ("Adriana", "To get my poor, mad husband out from inside there. Let us in so we can tie him up tight and bring him home to recover."), ("Angelo", "(to SECOND MERCHANT) I knew he wasnt quite in his right mind."), ("Second merchant", "(to ANGELO) Now Im sorry I raised my sword against him."), ("Abbess", "How long has he been possessed like this?"), ("Adriana", "This week he was sad, moody, and depressed and very different from his usual self. But it wasnt until this afternoon that he broke out into violence."), ("Abbess", "Did he lose a lot of money in a shipwreck? Has a close friend of his died? Has he fallen in love with another woman? Thats a sin young men often commit because they allow their eyes to wander. Which of these bad things happened to him?"), ("Adriana", "None of them, except the last one. He fell in love, and that made him leave home often."), ("Abbess", "You should have reprimanded him for that."), ("Adriana", "I did."), ("Abbess", "Fine, but you werent harsh enough."), ("Adriana", "I was as harsh as I could be while still being a lady."), ("Abbess", "You scolded him in private?"), ("Adriana", "And in public too."), ("Abbess", "Fine, but not enough."), ("Adriana", "It was all we talked about. I kept him awake at night talking about it. He couldnt eat without me talking about it. When we were alone, it was the only thing I talked about, and when we were with other people, I often found a way to mention it. All I ever did was tell him how hurtful and bad it was."), ("Abbess", "And thats why he went crazy. A jealous womans poisonous ranting is worse than the bite of a rabid dog. You disturbed his sleep with your complaining, which is why hes disoriented. You seasoned his food with screams. Stress during mealtime ruins the digestion, and that gave him a raging fever. Fever, as we know, is a kind of madness. You spoiled his fun by fighting with him, and when people cant enjoy themselves, they grow moody and dull with melancholythey come very close to being grim and cheerlessly depressed. Next thing you know, all kinds of terrible illnesses break out. Ruining his meals, his enjoyment, and his sleep would drive any man or beast mad. What Im saying is, your jealousy has pushed your husband away from his sanity."), ("Luciana", "She was always gentle when she scolded him, even when he behaved in the worst and wildest ways. (to ADRIANA) Why wont you defend yourself against this woman?"), ("Adriana", "She has tricked me into seeing my own faults. Gentlemen, go in there and grab him."), ("Abbess", "Nobody goes into my house!"), ("Adriana", "Then have your servants bring him out."), ("Abbess", "No: he came here for sanctuaryIn Shakespeares period, people who sought protection in churches and other holy places were considered outside the reach of the law.sanctuary, and that will protect him from you. Ill try to bring him back to his right mind and work to the end of my abilities to do so."), ("Adriana", "Its my place to take care of my husband and nurse him back to health. It is my duty and mine alone. So let me take him home."), ("Abbess", "Be patient. Im not going to let him leave until Ive tried every means to cure him. With my healthful potions, drugs, and holy prayers, Ill make him a complete man again. Healing is part and parcel of my religious vows; it is a charitable duty my order performs. Therefore, depart, and leave him here with me."), ("Adriana", "I will not depart and leave my husband here. It doesnt suit your holiness to separate a husband and his wife."), ("Abbess", "Be quiet and depart. Youre not going to take him."), ("Luciana", "Go lodge a complaint about this with the duke."), ("Adriana", "Come with me. Ill fall at his feet and lie there until my pleading and crying convinces the duke to come here and force my husband to leave this abbey."), ("Second merchant", "Its almost five o'clock. The duke will pass by here soon. He always passes here on his way to that melancholy place where criminals are put to death. Its just behind this abbey."), ("Angelo", "Why is he going there today?"), ("Second merchant", "To see an elderly, unlucky merchant from Syracuse publicly beheaded for breaking the law and coming here to Ephesus."), ("Angelo", "Here they come. We will watch the execution."), ("Luciana", "Kneel down to the duke before he passes by the abbey."), ("Duke", "One more time, we proclaim this publicly: If anyone will pay this mans bail, he will not be put to death. This is how well we regard him."), ("Adriana", "Duke, the abbess has wronged me and I seek justice."), ("Duke", "Shes a virtuous and holy lady. She cant possibly have done you any wrong."), ("Adriana", "Your Highness, you were the one who introduced me to my husband, Antipholus, and suggested I marry him. On this terrible day, a most outrageous fit of madness possessed him. It made him run desperately through the streets with his servant, who is just as mad. He angered all the citizens by rushing into their houses and taking rings, jewels, and anything else he felt like. At one point I managed to get him tied up and sent home so that I could make some order out of all the trouble he caused. But somehow, he broke free from his guards. Then he and his crazy servant found us and chased us away with swords. We got more help and came back to capture them, but then they fled into this abbey. We tried to go in, but the abbess stopped us. She wouldnt let us get him and she wouldnt send him out. So please, most gracious duke, order her to bring him out so we can get him some help."), ("Duke", "A long time ago your husband was a soldier in the wars I led. And when you married him and made him the master of your bed, I gave you my word that I would do everything I possibly could for him. (to his followers) Go, knock on the gate and bid the abbess come out here and speak to me. Ill settle this before I go"), ("Messenger", "Mistress! Run and save yourself. My master and his servant broke loose. Theyve beaten the maids and tied up Doctor Pinch. Then they set fire to his beard and threw sewage to put out the flames. My master keeps telling the doctor to relax, while his servant cuts the doctors hair in a ridiculous fashion. If you dont send some help, theyll kill Doctor Pinch."), ("Adriana", "Shut up, fool! Your master and his servant are here. Youre telling a lie."), ("Messenger", "Mistress, I swear on my life that its true. It was just moments ago. Hes crying out for you and swears hell burn your face and disfigure you if he can get ahold of you. Listen, listen! I hear him, mistress. Run, get out of here!"), ("Duke", "(to ADRIANA) Stand with me. Dont be scared. (to his men) Guards, get your weapons!"), ("Adriana", "Oh, my, its my husband. Look, he can become invisible. Just now we put him in the abbey over here, and now hes over there. Its impossible to understand."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Justice, gracious duke. Please bring me justice! A long time ago I did good service to you. I fought in your wars and took deep wounds to save your life. In exchange for the blood I shed for you then, I ask you for justice now."), ("Egeon", "(to himself) The fear of death might be making me senile, but I think I see my son Antipholus, and Dromio."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Sweet prince, I want justice from that woman there. This woman that you urged me to marry has abused me and dishonored me, doing the most injury possible. The things she has shamelessly hurled on me are beyond imagination."), ("Duke", "Tell me the details. You know Ill be fair."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Today, great duke, she locked me out of my house and feasted there with whores."), ("Duke", "Thats terrible! (to ADRIANA) Tell us, woman, did you do that?"), ("Adriana", "No, my good lord. I ate with him and my sister. Damn my soul if these accusations are true!"), ("Luciana", "If shes lying, I pray that I never sleep again at night or wake up during the day."), ("Angelo", "Oh, lying woman! Both of them are liars: the madman accuses them justly."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "My lord, I know what Im saying. Im not drunk, and I havent gone mad from angereven though the wrongs done to me today would drive any man insane. This woman locked me out of the house today at lunchtime, and if he werent conspiring with her, this jeweler could confirm my story since he was with me at the time. He left to fetch a necklace and he promised to bring it to the Porcupine, where I was dining with Balthasar. He hadnt arrived by the time we finished eating, so I went out looking for him. I met him in the streethe was there with that man. (points to the SECOND MERCHANT) Thats when this lying jeweler swore that he had already given me the necklace, which, God knows, he hadnt. He had me arrested for it, and I went with the officer, sending my servant home to get money for the bail. When my servant returned empty-handed, I politely asked the officer to accompany me to my house. On the way, we came across my wife, her sister, and their gang of vile associates. One of them was a man named Pinch: a hungry, narrow-faced villain; a skeleton; a fraud; a raggedy magician and fortune-teller; a needy, hollow-eyed, emaciated wretch; a walking corpse. He pretended to be some kind of sorcerer, and he gazed in my eyes and took my pulse. Then, with his thin face leering down at mine, he cried out that I was possessed. Then they all pounced on me, tied me up, carried me away, and left me in a dark, dank cellar in my house. They left me and my servant there, tied together. Eventually I chewed through the ropes and freed myself, and I immediately ran to find you, Your Grace. I beg you: grant me justice for the deep shame I have suffered and the terrible wrongs done to me."), ("Angelo", "Your Highness, I can confirm this much: he was locked out of his house and didnt eat at home."), ("Duke", "But did he receive a necklace from you?"), ("Angelo", "He did, my lord. And when he ran in here, everyone could see that he was wearing that necklace."), ("Second merchant", "Besides, Ill swear I heard you confess that you did receive the necklace, even after you swore at the marketplace that you hadnt. Thats when I raised my sword against you, and you fled into this abbeywhich, I think, you must have escaped from through some kind of trick."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I was never inside this abbey, and you never raised your sword against me. I never saw the necklace, so help me heaven! Everything you charge me with is untrue."), ("Duke", "Why, what a complicated case this is! I think you all must have drunk some kind of potion thats turned you all into animals. (to ADRIANA) If you put him in the abbey, thats where hed be. If he were insane, he wouldnt be pleading his case so sensibly. You say he ate at home, but the jeweler says he didnt. SirrahSirrah = term of address for a person of low social standingSirrah, what do you have to say?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Sir, he ate with this woman at the Porcupine."), ("Courtesan", "He did, and he snatched my ring right off my finger."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Thats true, my lord: I did get this ring from her."), ("Duke", "Did you see him enter this abbey?"), ("Courtesan", "As clearly as I see you, my lord."), ("Duke", "This is very odd. Get the abbess out here. I think youre all either bewildered or stark raving mad."), ("Egeon", "Mighty duke, please allow me to say something. I think I see a friend who will pay my bail and save my life."), ("Duke", "Feel free to say what you wish, Syracusian."), ("Egeon", "(to ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS) Isnt your name Antipholus? And isnt that Dromio, the man bound to you?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I was bound to him an hour ago, sir, but thankfully he chewed through our ropes. Now Im Dromio and no longer attached to him."), ("Egeon", "Im sure you both remember me."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Actually, its ourselves you bring to mind since just a few moments ago we were tied up, as you are now. Youre not one of Pinchs patients, are you, sir?"), ("Egeon", "Why are you looking at me so strangely? You know me well."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I never saw you before in my life."), ("Egeon", "Oh, grief has transformed me since the last time you saw me. Time has the power to deform people, and the sorrowful hours I have spent in his company have put these strange lines and wrinkles on my face. But tell me this: dont you know my voice?"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "No."), ("Egeon", "Dont you, Dromio?"), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No sir, trust me, I do not."), ("Egeon", "I am sure you do."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Fine, sir, but Im sure I dont. And youre in no position to doubt my word."), ("Egeon", "You dont know my voice? Oh, severe Time! Have you mangled my tongue so badly in these seven short years that my only son can no longer recognize my weak, sorrow-ravaged voice? Its true: this aged face of mine is hidden by a snow white beard, and the blood is freezing in my veins. But I still have a little memory left, and theres still some fire in my eyes; my dull, deaf ears can still hear a little. All these aging faculties tell meand I cannot be wrongthat you are my son, Antipholus."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I never saw my father in my life."), ("Egeon", "You know that we parted only seven years ago, in Syracuse. Maybe youre ashamed to admit that you know me because Im a prisoner now."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "The duke and everyone who knows me in this city can confirm thats not true. Ive never been to Syracuse in my life."), ("Duke", "I tell you, Syracusian. Ive been looking after Antipholus for twenty years, and during that time hes never been to Syracuse. Your old age and the prospect of death are making you imagine things."), ("Abbess", "Mighty duke, look here and see a man whos been treated most terribly!"), ("Adriana", "Either my eyes deceive me, or I see two husbands."), ("Duke", "(looks at the ANTIPHOLUS twins) One of these men is the others genius.(looks at the DROMIO twins) And the same with these two. But which is the man and which is the spiritgenius = attendant spirit, believed to follow a person throughout his lifespirit? Can anyone tell?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "I, sir, am Dromio. Command this man to leave."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I, sir, am Dromio. Pray, let me stay."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "You are Egeon, arent you? Or are you his ghost?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Oh, my old master! Who tied him up?"), ("Abbess", "Whoever tied him up, I will loosen the ropes, and with his freedom I will gain a husband. Tell us, old Egeon: are you the man who once had a wife named Emilia, who gave birth to two fair sons? Oh, if you are the same Egeon, speak now, and speak to that same Emilia!"), ("Duke", "Why, now the story the merchant told me this morning is starting to make sense. These two Antipholuses, who look so alikeand these two Dromios, who seem to have the same faceand her story of being shipwreckedwhy, these two are the parents of these children and have been reunited by accident."), ("Egeon", "If Im not dreaming, you are Emilia. If its really you, tell me what happened to our son, who floated away with you on that deadly raft."), ("Abbess", "Some men from Epidamnum rescued me, our son, and Dromio. But then a gang of violent fishermen from Corinth kidnapped Dromio and my son and carried them away. I dont know what became of them. You can see what became of me."), ("Duke", "Antipholus, arent you originally from Corinth?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "No, sir. I came from Syracuse."), ("Duke", "Wait, dont stand next to each other. I cant tell whos who."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I came from Corinth, Your Highness."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "And I came with him."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Your renowned uncle, Duke Menaphon, the famous soldier, brought me here."), ("Adriana", "Which of you two ate lunch with me today?"), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I did, kind lady."), ("Adriana", "And youre my husband, right?"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "No, hes not. I say no to that."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "So do I, although she called me her husband. And this beautiful gentlewoman, her sister, called me brother. (to LUCIANA) If all this is for real, I hope Ill get the chance to make good on all the things I said to you today."), ("Angelo", "Thats the necklace I gave you, sir."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I think it is, sir. I dont deny it."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "And you, sir, had me arrested over that necklace."), ("Angelo", "I think I did, sir. I dont deny it."), ("Adriana", "I sent Dromio to you with money for bail, but I dont think he brought it to you."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No, he didnt get any by me."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "I got this purse full of money from you, and my Dromio brought it to me. It seems that we kept running into each others servants all day. And everyone thought I was him, and he was me, and thats how all these errors came about."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "I want to use this money to set my father free."), ("Duke", "Thats not necessary. Im going to let him live."), ("Courtesan", "Sir, I must get that diamond ring back from you."), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "There, take it, and thanks for taking such good care of me."), ("Abbess", "Renowned duke, please join us in the abbey, where we will discuss at length all that has happened to us. Everyone assembled here who has been troubled by the days events join us as well, and we will straighten everything out. My sons, waiting to hear news of you has been like a second childbirth: this time, my labor lasted thirty-three years, and I am only now delivered of my heavy burden. Duke Solinus, my husband, and both my childrenand you two Dromios, who marked the day of my sons' births with your owncome into the abbey with me for a new christening. After such a long period of grief, we will have such a celebration!"), ("Duke", "With all my heart, Ill join you."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "(to ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS) Master, should I go get your luggage off the ship?"), ("Antipholus of ephesus", "Dromio, what stuff of mine did you put on a ship?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "The stuff you had at the Centaur, sir."), ("Antipholus of syracuse", "He means me. Im your master, Dromio. Come inside with us: well deal with that later. Embrace your brother there, and rejoice with him."), ("Dromio of syracuse", "You have a fat friend at your masters house: she took care of me in the kitchen today, thinking I was you. I guess now shes going to be my sister-in-law and not my wife."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "I think youre my mirror, not my brother. And I can see by looking at you that Im a pretty good-looking fellow. Do you want to go in and join the party?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "After you, sir. Youre older than me."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "Thats a good point. How can we tell which of us is the oldest?"), ("Dromio of syracuse", "Well draw straws. Meanwhile, after you."), ("Dromio of ephesus", "No, Ill tell you what. We came into the world as brother and brother, so now lets enter hand in handnot one before the other.")]