[("Flavius", "Get out of here! Go home, you lazy men. What, is today a holiday? Dont you know that working men arent supposed to walk around on a workday without wearing their work clothes? You there, speak up. Whats your occupation?"), ("Carpenter", "Im a carpenter, sir."), ("Murellus", "Where are your leather apron and your ruler? What are you doing, wearing your best clothes? And you, sir, whats your trade?"), ("Cobbler", "Well, compared to a fine workman, you might call me a mere cobbler."), ("Murellus", "But whats your trade? Answer me straightforwardly."), ("Cobbler", "It is a trade, sir, that I practice with a clear conscience. I am a mender of worn soles."), ("Murellus", "What trade, boy? You insolent rascal, what trade?"), ("Cobbler", "Sir, please, dont be angry. But if your soles are worn out, I can mend you."), ("Murellus", "What do you mean by that? Mend me, you impertinent fellow?!"), ("Cobbler", "Cobble you, sir."), ("Flavius", "Youre a cobbler, are you?"), ("Cobbler", "Sir, I make my living using an awl. I stick to my work; I dont meddle in politics or chase women. Im a surgeon to old shoes. When theyre endangered, I save them. The noblest men who ever walked on leather have walked on my handiwork."), ("Flavius", "But why arent you in your shop today? Why are you leading these men through the streets?"), ("Cobbler", "Well, to wear out their shoes and get myself more work. Seriously, though, we took the day off to see Caesar, sir, and celebrate his triumph."), ("Murellus", "Why would you celebrate it? What victory does he bring home? What foreign lands has he conquered and captive foreigners chained to his chariot wheels? You blockheads, you unfeeling men! You hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome, didnt you know PompeyCaesar has just conquered the sons of his deceased enemy Pompey. He as won in a civil war, not a foreign conquest. Pompey? Many times you climbed up on walls and battlements, towers and windowseven chimney topswith your babies in your arms, and sat there patiently all day waiting to see great Pompey ride through the streets of Rome. And when you caught a glimpse of his chariot, didnt you shout so loud that the river Tiber shook as it echoed? And now you put on your best clothes? And now you take a holiday? And now you toss flowers in the path of Caesar, who comes in triumph over Pompeys defeated sons? Go home! Run to your houses, fall on your knees, and pray to the gods to spare you the pain that you deserve for such ingratitude."), ("Flavius", "Go, go, good countrymen, and to make up for having done wrong, gather up all the poor men like yourselves, lead them to the Tiber, and weep into the river until it overflows its banks. Well, that ought to move even the most thickheaded of them. There they go, feeling so guilty theyre now tongue-tiedthey dont have a thing to say. You go down toward the Capitol, and Ill go this way. Undress the statues if theyre decorated in honor of Caesar."), ("Murellus", "Can we do that? You know its the feast of LupercalThe feast of Lupercal is an annual celebration to honor the Roman god Lupercus (called Pan in Greek mythology). Lupercal."), ("Flavius", "It doesnt matter. Make sure that none of the statues are decorated in tribute to Caesar. Ill walk around and force the commoners off the streets. You do the same, wherever the crowds are thick. If we take away Caesars support, hell have to come back down to earth; otherwise, hell fly too high and keep the rest of us in a state of fear and obedience."), ("Caesar", "Calphurnia!"), ("Casca", "Quiet! Caesars talking."), ("Caesar", "Calphurnia!"), ("Calphurnia", "Im here, my lord."), ("Caesar", "Stand right in Antoniuss path when he runs the race. Antonius!"), ("Antony", "Yes, Caesar?"), ("Caesar", "Antonius, after you take off, dont forget to touch Calphurnia, because our wise elders say that if you touch an infertile woman during this holy race, shell be freed from the curse of sterility."), ("Antony", "Ill remember. When Caesar says do this, it is done."), ("Caesar", "Continue, then, and dont forget to perform all of the rituals."), ("Soothsayer", "Caesar!"), ("Caesar", "Whos calling me?"), ("Casca", "Quiet, everyone! Quiet!"), ("Caesar", "Who in the crowd is calling me? I hear a voice more piercing than the music of these trumpets calling Caesar! Speak. Caesar is listening."), ("Soothsayer", "Beware of March 15th."), ("Caesar", "Whos that?"), ("Brutus", "A soothsayer tells you to beware of March 15th."), ("Caesar", "Bring him in front of me. Let me see his face."), ("Cassius", "You, fellow, step out of the crowd. This is Caesar youre looking at."), ("Caesar", "What do you have to say to me now? Speak once again."), ("Soothsayer", "Beware of March 15th."), ("Caesar", "Hes insane. Lets leave him. Lets move."), ("Cassius", "Are you going to watch the race?"), ("Brutus", "Not me."), ("Cassius", "Please, come."), ("Brutus", "I dont like sports. Im not competitive like Antony. But dont let me keep you from going, Cassius. Ill go my own way."), ("Cassius", "Brutus, Ive been watching you lately. You seem less good-natured and affectionate toward me than usual. Youve been stubborn and unfamiliar with me, your friend who loves you."), ("Brutus", "Cassius, dont take it badly. If I seem guarded, its only because Im uneasy with myself. Lately Ive been overwhelmed with private thoughts and inner conflicts, which have affected my behavior. But this shouldnt trouble my good friendsand I consider you a good friend, Cassius. Dont think anything more about my distraction than that poor Brutus, who is at war with himself, forgets to show affection to others."), ("Cassius", "Brutus, I misunderstood your feelings, and therefore kept to myself certain thoughts I might have shared. Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?"), ("Brutus", "No, Cassius. The eye cant see itself, except by reflection in other surfaces."), ("Cassius", "Thats true. And its too bad, Brutus, that you dont have any mirrors that could display your hidden excellence to yourself. Ive heard many of the noblest Romansnext to immortal Caesarspeaking of you, complaining of the tyranny of todays government, and wishing that your eyes were working better."), ("Brutus", "What dangers are you trying to lead me into, Cassius, that you want me to look inside myself for something thats not there?"), ("Cassius", "Ill tell you, good Brutus. And since you know you can see yourself best by reflection, Ill be your mirror and show you, without exaggeration, things inside you that you cant see. And dont be suspicious of me, noble Brutus. If I were your average fool, or if I made my feelings for you worthless by making the same promises of friendship to everybody, or if youd seen me first flattering men, hugging them tightly, and later slandering them behind their backs, or if you hear that I drunkenly declare friendship at banquets with all the rabble, only then, of course, go ahead and assume Im dangerous."), ("Brutus", "Why are they shouting? Im afraid the people have made Caesar their king."), ("Cassius", "Really, are you afraid of that? Then I have to assume you dont want him to be king."), ("Brutus", "I dont, Cassius, though I love Caesar very much. But why do you keep me here so long? What do you want to tell me? If its for the good of all Romans, Id do it even if it meant my death. Let the gods give me good luck only as long as I love honor more than I fear death."), ("Cassius", "I know this quality in you, Brutusits as familiar to me as your face. Indeed, honor is what I want to talk to you about. I dont know what you and other men think of this life, but as for me, Id rather not live at all than live to worship a man as ordinary as myself. I was born as free as Caesar. So were you. We both have eaten as well, and we can both endure the cold winter as well as he. Once, on a cold and windy day, when the river Tiber was crashing against its banks, Caesar said to me, Cassius, I dare you to jump into this rough water with me and swim to that point there. As soon as he spoke, though I was fully dressed, I plunged in and called for him to follow. And he did. The water roared, and we fought against it with vigorous arms. And, thanks to our fierce competitiveness, we made progress. But before we reached the end point, Caesar cried, Help me, Cassius, or I will sink! And just as Aeneas, the hero who founded Rome, emerged from the fires of Troy with his elderly father Anchises on his shoulder, so I emerged from the Tiber carrying the tired Caesar. And this is the man who has now become a god, and Im a wretched creature who must bow down if Caesar so much as carelessly nods my way. In Spain, Caesar had a fever, and it made him shake. Its true, this so-called godhe shook. His cowardly lips turned white, and the same eye whose gaze terrifies the world lost its gleam. I heard him groanyes, I didand the same tongue that ordered the Romans to obey him and transcribe his speeches in their books cried, Give me some water, Titinius, like a sick girl. It astounds me that such a weak man could beat the whole world and carry the trophy of victory alone."), ("Brutus", "More shouting! I think this applause is for some new honors awarded to Caesar."), ("Cassius", "Why, Caesar straddles the narrow world like a giant, and we petty men walk under his huge legs and look forward only to dying dishonorably, as slaves. Men can be masters of their fate. It is not destinys fault, but our own faults, that were slaves. Brutus and Caesar. Whats so special about Caesar? Why should that name be proclaimed more than yours? Write them togetheryours is just as good a name. Pronounce themit is just as nice to say. Weigh themits just as heavy. Cast spells with them, and Brutus will call up a ghost as well as Caesar. Now, in the name of all the gods, I ask you what food does Caesar eat that has made him grow so great? Our era should be ashamed! Rome has lost the ability to raise noble men! When was there ever an age, since the beginning of time, that didnt feature more than one famous man? Until now, no one could say that only one man mattered in all of vast Rome. Now, though, in all of Rome, theres room for only one man. You and I have heard our fathers talk of another Brutusyour ancestorwho wouldve let the devil himself reign in his Roman Republic before he let a king rule."), ("Brutus", "I have no doubt that you love me. Im beginning to understand what you want me to do. What I think about this, and about whats happening here in Rome, Ill tell you later. For now, dont try to persuade me anymoreI ask you as a friend. Ill think over what youve said, Ill listen patiently to whatever else you have to say, and Ill find a good time for us to discuss further such weighty matters. Until then, my noble friend, think about this: Id rather be a poor villager than call myself a citizen of Rome under the hard conditions that this time is likely to put us through."), ("Cassius", "Im glad that my weak words have provoked even this small show of protest from you."), ("Brutus", "The games are done and Caesar is returning."), ("Cassius", "As they pass by, grab Casca by the sleeve, and hell tell you if anything important happened todayin his usual sour way."), ("Brutus", "Ill do so. But look, Cassius, Caesar looks angry and everyone else looks as if theyve been scolded. Calphurnias face is pale, and Ciceros eyes are as red and fiery as they get when senators are arguing with him at the Capitol."), ("Cassius", "Casca will tell us whats the matter."), ("Caesar", "Antonio!"), ("Antony", "Caesar?"), ("Caesar", "(speaking so that only ANTONY can hear) I want the men around me to be fat, healthy-looking men who sleep at night. That Cassius over there has a lean and hungry look. He thinks too much. Men like him are dangerous."), ("Antony", "(speaking so that only CAESAR can hear) Dont be afraid of him, Caesar. He isnt dangerous. Hes a noble Roman with a good disposition."), ("Caesar", "(speaking so that only ANTONY can hear) I wish he were fatter! But Im not afraid of him. And yet, if I were capable of fearing anyone, Cassius would be the first man Id avoid. He reads a lot, hes a keen observer, and he sees the hidden motives in what men do. He doesnt like plays the way you do, Antony. He doesnt listen to music. He rarely smiles, and when he does smile, he does so in a self-mocking way, as if he scorns himself for smiling at all. Men like him will never be comfortable while someone ranks higher than themselves, and therefore theyre very dangerous. Im telling you what should be feared, not what I fearbecause after all, I am Caesar. Come over to my right side, because this ear is deaf, and tell me what you really think of Cassius."), ("Casca", "(to BRUTUS) You tugged on my cloak. Do you want to speak with me?"), ("Brutus", "Yes, Casca. Tell us what happened today that put Caesar in such a serious mood."), ("Casca", "But you were with him, werent you?"), ("Brutus", "If I were, I wouldnt need to ask you what happened."), ("Casca", "A crown was offered to him, and he pushed it away with the back of his hand, like thisand then the people started shouting."), ("Brutus", "What was the second noise for?"), ("Casca", "The same thing."), ("Cassius", "They shouted three times. What was the last cry for?"), ("Casca", "For the same thing."), ("Brutus", "The crown was offered to him three times?"), ("Casca", "Yes, indeed, it was, and he pushed it away three times, each time more gently than the last; and at each refusal my countrymen shouted."), ("Cassius", "Who offered him the crown?"), ("Casca", "Antony."), ("Brutus", "Tell us how it happened, noble Casca."), ("Casca", "I cant explain it. It was all silly and so I paid no attention. I saw Mark Antony offer him a crownthough it wasnt a real crown, just a small circletand, as I told you, he refused it oncethough in my opinion he wouldve liked to have it. Then Antony offered it to him again, and he refused it again (though, in my opinion, he was reluctant to take his hand off it). Then Antony offered it the third time. He refused it the third time, and as he refused it the commoners hooted and clapped their chapped hands, and threw up their sweaty hats, and let loose such a great deal of stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown that it nearly choked Caesar, because he fainted and fell down. As for myself, I didnt dare laugh, for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the stinking air."), ("Cassius", "But wait a minute, please. Did you say Caesar fainted?"), ("Casca", "He fell down in the marketplace and foamed at the mouth and was speechless."), ("Brutus", "Thats very likely. He has epilepsy, a disease where you fall down."), ("Cassius", "No, Caesar doesnt have epilepsy. You and I, and honest Casca, we have epilepsyweve fallen."), ("Casca", "I dont know what you mean by that, but Im sure Caesar fell down. The rabble applauded and hissed him according to whether he pleased them or displeased them, just like they do to actors in the theater. If they didnt, Im a liar."), ("Brutus", "What did he say when he regained consciousness?"), ("Casca", "Indeed, before he fell down, when he realized the commoners were glad he refused the crown, he pulled open his robe and offered them his throat to cut. If Id been a common laborer and hadnt taken him up on his offer, to hell with me. And so he fainted. When he regained consciousness again, he said that if hed done or said anything wrong, he wanted them to know that it was all because of his sickness. Three or four women near me cried, Alas, good soul! and forgave him with all their hearts. But never mind themif Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they wouldve forgiven him."), ("Brutus", "And after that he came back here looking so serious?"), ("Casca", "Yes."), ("Cassius", "Did Cicero say anything?"), ("Casca", "Yes, he said something in Greek."), ("Cassius", "What did he say?"), ("Casca", "If I told you I understood Greek, Id be lying. But those who understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads. As for myself, it was Greek to me. I have more news too. Murellus and Flavius have been punished for pulling scarves off statues of Caesar. There you go. There was even more foolishness, if I could only remember it."), ("Cassius", "Will you have dinner with me tonight, Casca?"), ("Casca", "No, I have a commitment."), ("Cassius", "Will you dine with me tomorrow?"), ("Casca", "Yes, if Im still alive, and youre still sane, and your dinner is worth eating."), ("Cassius", "Good. Ill expect you."), ("Casca", "Do so. Farewell to you both."), ("Brutus", "What a stupid man hes become! He was so sharp when he was in school."), ("Cassius", "Hes still sharp when it comes to carrying out a bold or noble enterprise, though he puts on this show of stupidity. He speaks roughly, but what he says is smart, and his roughness makes other people enjoy listening to him."), ("Brutus", "Youre right, thats how it is. Ill leave you for now. If youd like to talk tomorrow, Ill come to your home. Or, if you dont mind, come to my home, and Ill wait for you."), ("Cassius", "Ill do so. Until then, think about the well-being of Rome. Well, Brutus, youre noble. Yet I see that your honorable character can be bent from its usual shape, which proves that good men should stick only to the company of other good men, because who is so firm that he cant be seduced? Caesar resents me, but he loves Brutus. If I were Brutus now and Brutus were me, I wouldnt have let him influence me. Tonight Ill throw through his window a few letters in different handwritingas if they came from several citizensall testifying to the great respect Romans have for Brutus, and all alluding to Caesars unseemly ambition. And after this, let Caesar brace himself, for well either dethrone him or suffer even worse than now."), ("Cicero", "Good evening, Casca. Did you accompany Caesar home? Why are you breathless, and why are you staring like that?"), ("Casca", "Arent you disturbed when the earth itself is shaking and swaying as if it were a flimsy thing? Cicero, Ive seen storms in which the angry winds split old oak trees, and Ive seen the ocean swell, rage, and foam, as if it wanted to reach the storm clouds, but never before tonight, never until now, have I experienced a storm that drops fire. Either there are wars in heaven, or else the world, too insolent toward the gods, provokes them to send destruction."), ("Cicero", "Whathave you seen something so strange that it is clearly an omen from the gods?"), ("Casca", "A common slaveyoud know him if you saw himheld up his left hand, which flamed and burned like twenty torches together. And yet his hand was immune to the fire and didnt get burned. AlsoIve kept my sword unsheathed since I saw thisin front of the Capitol I met a lion who looked at me and strutted by without bothering to attack me. And there were a hundred spooked women huddled together in fear who swore they saw men on fire walk up and down the streets. And yesterday the night owl sat hooting and shrieking in the marketplace at noon. When all these extraordinary things happen at once, we shouldnt say, These happenings can be explained rationally. Theyre natural enough. I think these things are omens of things to come in our country."), ("Cicero", "Indeed, its a strange time. But men tend to interpret things however suits them and totally miss the actual meaning of the things themselves. Is Caesar visiting the Capitol tomorrow?"), ("Casca", "He is, because he told Antonius to tell you hed be there tomorrow."), ("Cicero", "Good night then, Casca. This bad weather isnt good to walk around in."), ("Casca", "Farewell, Cicero"), ("Cassius", "Whos there?"), ("Casca", "A Roman."), ("Cassius", "Its CascaI know your voice."), ("Casca", "Your ear is good. Cassius, what a night this is!"), ("Cassius", "Its a very pleasing night to honest men."), ("Casca", "Who ever saw the heavens threaten like this?"), ("Cassius", "Those who have known how bad things are here on earth. I have walked around the streets, exposing myself to the perilous night, unbuttoned like this, as you see, Casca, baring my chest to the thunderbolt. When the forked blue lightning seemed to break open the sky, I put myself right where I thought it would hit."), ("Casca", "But why did you tempt the heavens like that? Mankinds role is to fear and tremble when the almighty gods send warning signals."), ("Cassius", "Youre acting stupid, Casca, and you lack the quick wits that a Roman should haveor else you dont use them. You go pale, you stare, and you act in awe of the strange disturbance in the heavens. But if you thought about the real reason for all these fires, all these gliding ghosts, for why birds and animals abandon their natural behavior, why old men, fools, and children make predictions, why all sorts of things have departed from the usual course of their natures and become monstrosities, then youd understand that heaven had them act this way so they would serve as frightening warnings of an unnatural state to come. Right this minute, Casca, I could name a man whos just like this dreadful night. A man who thunders, throws lightning, splits open graves, and roars like the lion in the Capitol. A man no mightier than you or I in ability, yet grown as huge and frightening as tonights strange happenings."), ("Casca", "Youre talking about Caesar, right, Cassius?"), ("Cassius", "Let it be who it is. Romans today still have the powerful bodies of their ancestors, but, unfortunately, we dont have their manly spirits, and instead we take after our mothers. Our tolerance for slavery and oppression shows us to be weak, like women."), ("Casca", "Indeed, they say that the senators plan to establish Caesar as a king tomorrow, and hell wear his crown at sea and on land everywhere except here in Italy."), ("Cassius", "I know where Ill wear this dagger, then. Ill kill myself to save myself from slavery. In suicide, gods make the weak strong. In suicide, gods allow tyrants to be defeated. No stony tower, no brass walls, no airless dungeon, no iron chains can contain a strong mind. But if a man becomes weary of these obstacles, he can always kill himself. Let everyone beware: I can shake off the tyranny that now oppresses me whenever I choose."), ("Casca", "So can I. In fact, every imprisoned man holds in his own hand the tool to free himself."), ("Cassius", "How can Caesar be a tyrant then? Poor man! I know he wouldnt be a wolf if the Romans didnt act like sheep. He couldnt be a lion if the Romans werent such easy prey. People who want to start a big fire quickly start with little twigs. Rome becomes complete trash, nothing but rubbish and garbage, when it works to light up the ambitions of someone as worthless as Caesar. But, oh no! What have I said in my grief? I might be speaking to someone who wants to be a slave, in which case Ill be held accountable for my words. But Im armed and I dont care about danger."), ("Casca", "Youre talking to Casca, not to some smiling, two-faced tattletale. Say no more. Shake my hand. If youre joining together to right these wrongs, Ill go as far as any one of you."), ("Cassius", "Thats a deal. Now let me tell you, Casca, I have already convinced some of the noblest Romans to join me in an honorable but dangerous mission. And I know that by now theyre waiting for me on the porch outside Pompeys theater. Were meeting on this fearful night because no one is out on the streets. The sky tonight looks bloody, fiery, and terrible, just like the work we have to do."), ("Casca", "Hide for a minutesomeones approaching fast."), ("Cassius", "Its Cinna. I recognize his walk. Hes a friend. Cinna, where are you going in such a hurry?"), ("Cinna", "To find you. Whos that? Metellus Cimber?"), ("Cassius", "No, its Casca, someone whos going to work with us. Arent the others waiting for me, Cinna?"), ("Cinna", "Im glad Casca is with us. What a fearful night this is! Two or three of us have seen strange things."), ("Cassius", "Are the others waiting? Tell me."), ("Cinna", "Yes, they are. Oh, Cassius, if you could only convince Brutus to join us"), ("Cassius", "Dont worry. Good Cinna, take this paper and be sure to lay it in the judges chair where Brutus sits, so hell find it. And throw this one in his window, and attach this one with wax to the statue of Brutuss ancestor, old Brutus. When youve finished all this, return to the porch of Pompeys theater, where youll find us. Are Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?"), ("Cinna", "Everyones there except Metellus Cimber, and hes gone to look for you at your house. Well, Ill hurry and put these papers where you told me."), ("Cassius", "When youve finished, go back to Pompeys theater. Come on, Casca, you and I will go see Brutus at his house before sunrise. Hes three-quarters on our side already, and well win him over entirely at this meeting."), ("Casca", "Oh, the people love him well. Things that would look bad if we did them, Brutus could do and look virtuousjust like an alchemist turns worthless tin to gold."), ("Cassius", "Yes, youre absolutely right about how worthy Brutus is and how much we need him. Lets go, because its already after midnight, and we want him on our side before daylight."), ("Brutus", "Lucius, are you there? I cant tell by the position of the stars how near it is to daybreakLucius, are you there? I wish I had that weakness, to sleep too soundly. Come on, Lucius! Wake up, I say! Lucius!"), ("Lucius", "Did you call me, my lord?"), ("Brutus", "Put a candle in my study, Lucius. Call me when its lit."), ("Lucius", "I will, my lord."), ("Brutus", "The only way is to kill Caesar. I have no personal reason to strike at himonly the best interest of the people. He wants to be crowned. The question is, how would being king change him? Evil can come from good, just as poisonous snakes tend to come out into the open on bright sunny dayswhich means we have to walk carefully. If we crown him, I have to admit wed be giving him the power to do damage. Rulers abuse their power when they separate it from compassion. To be honest, Ive never known Caesar to let his emotions get the better of his reason. But everyone knows that an ambitious young man uses humility to advance himself, but when he reaches the top, he turns his back on his supporters and reaches for the skies while scorning those who helped him get where he is. Caesar might act like that. Therefore, in case he does, we must hold him back. And since our quarrel is with his future behavior, not what he does now, I must frame the argument like this: if his position is furthered, his character will fulfill these predictions. And therefore we should liken him to a serpents eggonce it has hatched, it becomes dangerous, like all serpents. Thus we must kill him while hes still in the shell."), ("Lucius", "The candle is burning in your study, sir. While I was looking for a flint to light it, I found this paper on the window, sealed up like this, and Im sure it wasnt there when I went to bed. (he gives BRUTUS the letter)"), ("Brutus", "Go back to bed. It isnt daybreak yet. Is tomorrow the 15th of March, boy?"), ("Lucius", "I dont know, sir."), ("Brutus", "Check the calendar and come tell me."), ("Lucius", "I will, sir."), ("Brutus", "The meteors whizzing in the sky are so bright that I can read by them. (he opens the letter and reads) Brutus, youre sleeping. Wake up and look at yourself. Is Rome going to etc. Speak, strike, fix the wrongs! Brutus, youre sleeping. Wake up. Ive noticed many such calls to action left where I would find them. Is Rome going to etc. What does this mean? Will Rome submit to one mans power? My ancestors drove Tarquin from the streets of Rome when he was pronounced a king. Speak, strike, fix it! Is this asking me to speak and strike? Oh, Rome, I promise you, if youre meant to receive justice, youll receive it by my hand!"), ("Lucius", "Sir, fifteen days of March have gone by."), ("Brutus", "Good. Go to the gate. Somebodys knocking. I havent slept since Cassius first began to turn me against Caesar. From the time when you decide to do something terrible to the moment you do it, everything feels unreal, like a horrible dream. The unconscious and the body work together and rebel against the conscious mind."), ("Lucius", "Sir, its your brother-in-law Cassius at the door. He wants to see you."), ("Brutus", "Is he alone?"), ("Lucius", "No, sir. There are others with him."), ("Brutus", "Do you know them?"), ("Lucius", "No, sir, their hats are pulled down over their ears and their faces are half buried under their cloaks, so theres no way to tell who they are."), ("Brutus", "Let them in. Its the faction that wants to kill Caesar. Oh, conspiracy, are you ashamed to show your face even at night, when evil things are most free? If so, when its day, where are you going to find a cave dark enough to hide your monstrous face? No, dont bother to find a cave, conspiracy. Instead, hide your true face behind smiles and friendliness. If you went ahead and exposed your true face, Hell itself wouldnt be dark enough to keep you from being found and stopped."), ("Cassius", "Im afraid were intruding too boldly on your sleep time. Good morning, Brutus. Are we bothering you?"), ("Brutus", "I was awake. Ive been up all night. Do I know these men who are with you?"), ("Cassius", "Yes, every one of them. There isnt one of them who doesnt admire you, and each one of them wishes you had as high an opinion of yourself as every noble Roman has of you. This is Trebonius."), ("Brutus", "Hes welcome here."), ("Cassius", "This is Decius Brutus."), ("Brutus", "Hes welcome too."), ("Cassius", "This is Casca. This is Cinna. And this is Metellus Cimber."), ("Brutus", "Theyre all welcome. What worries have kept you awake tonight?"), ("Cassius", "Can I have a word with you?"), ("Decius", "Heres the east. Wont the dawn come from here?"), ("Casca", "No."), ("Cinna", "Excuse me, sir, it will. These gray lines that lace the clouds are the beginnings of the dawn."), ("Casca", "Youre both wrong. (pointing his sword) Here, where I point my sword, the sun rises. Its quite near the south, since its still winter. About two months from now, the dawn will break further toward the north, and due east is where the Capitol stands, here."), ("Brutus", "(coming forward with CASSIUS) Give me your hands, all of you, one by one. (he shakes their hands)"), ("Cassius", "And let us swear to our resolution."), ("Brutus", "No, lets not swear an oath. If the sad faces of our fellow men, the suffering of our own souls, and the corruption of the present time arent enough to motivate us, lets break it off now and each of us go back to bed. Then we can let this ambitious tyrant continue unchallenged until each of us is killed at his whim. But if we have reasons that are strong enough to ignite cowards into action and to make weak women braveand I think we dothen, countrymen, what else could we possibly need to spur us to action? What bond do we need other than that of discreet Romans who have said what theyre going to do and wont back down? And what oath do we need other than that we honest men have told each other that this will happen or we will die trying? Swearing is for priests, cowards, overly cautious men, feeble old people, and those long-suffering weaklings who welcome abuse. Only men whom you wouldnt trust anyway would swear oaths, and for the worst reasons. Dont spoil the justness and virtue of our endeavor nor weaken our own irrepressible spirits by thinking that we need a binding oath, when the blood that every noble Roman contains within him would be proven bastards blood if he broke the smallest part of any promise he had made."), ("Cassius", "But what about Cicero? Should we see what he thinks? I think he will stand strong with us."), ("Casca", "Lets not leave him out."), ("Cinna", "No, by no means."), ("Metellus", "Yes, we should get his support, for his mature presence will make others think well of us and speak out in support of our actions. Theyll assume that Cicero, with his sound judgment, ordered the actions. His dignified maturity will distract attention from our youth and wildness."), ("Brutus", "No, dont even mention him. We shouldnt tell him about our plans. Hell never follow anything that other men have started."), ("Cassius", "Then leave him out."), ("Casca", "Indeed, hes not right for this."), ("Decius", "But should we only go after Caesar? No one else?"), ("Cassius", "Good point, Decius. I dont think it would be wise to let Mark Antony, whom Caesar is so fond of, outlive Caesar. Wed find that he was a dangerous plotter. And as you know, his connections, if he put them to good use, might be enough to hurt us all. To prevent this, Mark Antony should die along with Caesar."), ("Brutus", "Our action will seem too bloody if we cut off Caesars head and then hack at his arms and legs too, Caius Cassiusbecause Mark Antony is merely one of Caesars arms. Itll look like we killed Caesar out of anger and Mark Antony out of envy. Lets be sacrificers but not butchers, Caius. Were all against what Caesar stands for, and theres no blood in that. Oh, how I wish we could oppose Caesars spirithis overblown ambitionand not hack up Caesar himself! But, unfortunately, Caesar has to bleed if were going to stop him. Noble friends, lets kill him boldly but not with anger. Lets carve him up like a dish fit for the gods, not chop him up like a carcass fit for dogs. Lets be angry only long enough to do the deed, and then lets act like were disgusted by what we had to do. This will make our actions seem practical and not vengeful. If we appear calm to the people, theyll call us surgeons rather than murderers. As for Mark Antonyforget him. Hell be as useless as Caesars arm after Caesars head is cut off."), ("Cassius", "But Im still afraid of him, because the deep-rooted love he has for Caesar"), ("Brutus", "Alas, good Cassius, dont think about him. If he loves Caesar, then he can only hurt himselfby grieving and dying for Caesar. And Id be surprised if he even did that, for he prefers sports, fun, and friends."), ("Trebonius", "Theres nothing to fear in him. Lets not kill him. Hell live and laugh at this afterward."), ("Brutus", "Quiet! Count how many times the clock chimes."), ("Cassius", "The clock struck three."), ("Trebonius", "Its time to leave."), ("Cassius", "But we still dont know whether Caesar will go out in public today or not, because hes become superstitious lately, a complete turnaround from when he used to have such a bad opinion of fortune-tellers, dream interpreters, and ritual mumbo-jumbo. It might happen that these strange signs, the unusual terror of this night, and the urgings of his fortune-tellers will keep him away from the Capitol today."), ("Decius", "Dont worry about that. If hes reluctant, I can convince him. He loves to hear me tell him how men can be snared by flatterers, just like unicorns can be captured in trees, elephants in holes, and lions with nets. When I tell him he hates flatterers, he agrees, just at the moment when Im flattering him the most. Let me work on him. I can put him in the right mood, and Ill bring him to the Capitol."), ("Cassius", "No, well all go there to bring him."), ("Brutus", "By eight o'clock. Is that the latest we can do it?"), ("Cinna", "Lets make that the latest, but be sure to get there before then."), ("Metellus", "Caius Ligarius doesnt like Caesar, who berated him for speaking well of Pompey. I wonder that none of you thought about getting his support."), ("Brutus", "Good Metellus, go to him now. He likes me, and Ive given him good reason to. Just send him here, and Ill persuade him."), ("Cassius", "The morning is approaching. Well leave, Brutus. Friends, go your separate ways. But all of you, remember what youve said and prove yourselves true Romans."), ("Brutus", "Good gentlemen, look like youre rested and happy. Dont let our faces betray our plans. Instead, carry yourselves like Roman actors, with cheerful spirits and well-composed faces. And so, good morning to all of you. Boy! Lucius! Fast asleep? Well, enjoy the sweetness of deep sleep. Your brain isnt stuffed with the strange shapes and fantasies that come to men who are overwhelmed by worries. Thats why you sleep so soundly."), ("Portia", "Brutus, my lord."), ("Brutus", "Portia, what are you doing awake? It isnt good for your health to expose your weak body to the raw, cold morning."), ("Portia", "Its not good for your health, either. You rudely snuck out of bed. And last night at dinner, you got up abruptly and paced back and forth with your arms crossed, brooding and sighing, and when I asked you what was the matter, you gave me a dirty look. I asked you again, and you scratched your head and stamped your foot impatiently. I still insisted on knowing what the matter was, but you wouldnt answer me, instead giving me an angry wave of your hand and telling me to leave you alone. So I left, afraid of further provoking anger that was already inflamed but still hoping this was merely moodiness, which everyone is affected by once in awhile. Your strange mood wont let you eat or talk or sleep. If it had changed your outward appearance as much as it has affected you on the inside, I wouldnt even be able to recognize you, Brutus. My dear lord, tell me whats bothering you."), ("Brutus", "Im not feeling wellthats all."), ("Portia", "Youre smart, though, and if you were sick, youd take what you needed to get better."), ("Brutus", "Im doing so. Good Portia, go to bed."), ("Portia", "Are you sick? And is it healthy to walk uncovered and breathe in the dampness of the morning? Youre sick, yet you sneak out of your warm bed and let the humid and disease-infested air make you sicker? No, my Brutus, you have some sickness within your mind, which by virtue of my position I deserve to know about. (she kneels) And on my knees, I urge you, by my once-praised beauty, by all your vows of love and that great vow of marriage which made the two of us one person, that you should reveal to me, who is one half of yourself, why youre troubled and what men have visited you tonight. For there were six or seven men here, who hid their faces even in the darkness."), ("Brutus", "Dont kneel, noble Portia."), ("Portia", "(getting up) I wouldnt need to if you were acting nobly. Tell me, Brutus, as your wife, arent I supposed to be told the secrets that concern you? Am I part of you only in a limited senseI get to have dinner with you, sleep with you, and talk to you sometimes? Is my place only on the outskirts of your happiness? If its nothing more than that, then Im your whore, not your wife."), ("Brutus", "Youre my true and honorable wife, as dear to me as the blood that runs through my sad heart."), ("Portia", "If that were true, then Id know your secret. I admit Im only a woman, but nevertheless Im the woman Lord Brutus took for his wife. I admit Im only a woman, but Im still a woman from a noble familyIm Catos daughter. Do you really think Im no stronger than the rest of my sex, with such a father and such a husband? Tell me your secrets. I wont betray them. Ive proved my trustworthiness by giving myself a voluntary wound here in my thigh. If I can bear that pain, then I can bear my husbands secrets."), ("Brutus", "Oh, gods, make me worthy of this noble wife! Listen! Someone knocks. Portia, go inside awhile, and soon enough youll share the secrets of my heart. Ill explain all that I have committed to do and all the reasons for my sad face. Leave me quickly. Lucius, whos that knocking?"), ("Lucius", "Heres a sick man who wants to speak with you."), ("Brutus", "Its Caius Ligarius, whom Metellus spoke of. Boy, stand aside. Caius Ligarius! How are you?"), ("Ligarius", "Please accept my feeble good morning."), ("Brutus", "Oh, what a time youve chosen to be sick, brave Caius! How I wish you felt better!"), ("Ligarius", "Im not sick if youve prepared some honorable exploit for me."), ("Brutus", "Indeed, I would have such an exploit for you, Ligarius, if you were healthy enough to hear it."), ("Ligarius", "(takes off his head covering) By all the gods that Romans worship, I hereby throw off my sickness! Soul of Rome! Brave son of honorable ancestors! Youve conjured up my deadened spirit like an exorcist. Now say the word, and I will tackle all kinds of impossible things, and succeed too. What is there to do?"), ("Brutus", "A deed that will make sick men healthy."), ("Ligarius", "But arent there some healthy men whom we have to make sick?"), ("Brutus", "That too. My dear Caius, Ill explain the task at hand to you as we walk toward the man we must do it to."), ("Ligarius", "Start walking, and with an energized heart, Ill follow youto what, I dont know, but Im satisfied, simply knowing that Brutus leads me."), ("Brutus", "Follow me, then."), ("Caesar", "Neither the sky nor the earth have been quiet tonight. Calphurnia cried out three times in her sleep, Help, someone! Theyre murdering Caesar! Whos there?"), ("Servant", "My lord?"), ("Caesar", "Go tell the priests to perform a sacrifice immediately, and bring me their interpretation of the results."), ("Servant", "I will, my lord."), ("Calphurnia", "What are you doing, Caesar? Are you planning to go out? Youre not leaving the house today."), ("Caesar", "I will go out. The things that threaten me have only seen my back. When they see the face of Caesar, they will vanish."), ("Calphurnia", "Caesar, I never believed in omens, but now they frighten me. A servant told me the night-watchmen saw horrid sights too, but different ones from what we heard and saw. A lioness gave birth in the streets, and graves cracked open and thrust out their dead. Fierce, fiery warriors fought in the clouds in the usual formations of warranks and squadronsuntil the clouds drizzled blood onto the Capitol. The noise of battle filled the air, and horses neighed, and dying men groaned, and ghosts shrieked and squealed in the streets. Oh, Caesar! These things are beyond anything weve seen before, and Im afraid."), ("Caesar", "How can we avoid what the gods want to happen? But I will go out, for these bad omens apply to the world in general as much as they do to me."), ("Calphurnia", "When beggars die there are no comets in the sky. The heavens only announce the deaths of princes."), ("Caesar", "Cowards die many times before their deaths. The brave experience death only once. Of all the strange things Ive ever heard, it seems most strange to me that men fear death, given that death, which cant be avoided, will come whenever it wants. What do the priests say?"), ("Servant", "They dont want you to go out today. They pulled out the guts of the sacrificed animal and couldnt find its heart."), ("Caesar", "The gods do this to test my bravery. Theyre saying Id be an animal without a heart if I stayed home today out of fear. So, I wont. Danger knows that Caesar is more dangerous than he is. Were two lions born on the same day in the same litter, and Im the older and more terrible. I will go out."), ("Calphurnia", "Alas, my lord, your confidence is getting the better of your wisdom. Dont go out today. Say that its my fear that keeps you inside and not your own. Well send Mark Antony to the senate house, and hell say that youre sick today. (she kneels) Let me, on my knees, win you over to this plan."), ("Caesar", "All right. Mark Antony will say Im not well, and to please you Ill stay at home. Heres Decius Brutus. Hell tell them so."), ("Decius", "Hail, Caesar! Good morning, worthy Caesar. Ive come to take you to the senate house."), ("Caesar", "And youve come at a good time, so you can convey my greetings to the senators and tell them I wont come today. It wouldnt be true to say that I cant come, and even less true to say that I dont dare come. I simply wont come today. Tell them so, Decius."), ("Calphurnia", "Say hes sick."), ("Caesar", "Would I send a lie? Have I accomplished so much in battle, but now Im afraid to tell some old men the truth? Decius, go tell them that Caesar wont come."), ("Decius", "Most mighty Caesar, give me some reason, so I wont be laughed at when I tell them so."), ("Caesar", "The reason is that its what I want. Im not coming. Thats enough for the senate. But for your private satisfaction, because I love you, Ill tell you. Calphurnia, my wife, is keeping me at home. Last night, she dreamed she saw a statue of me with a hundred holes in it, like a fountain with pure blood flowing from it, and many happy Romans came smiling and washed their hands in it. She takes these signs for warnings and predictions of terrible evils to come, and, on her knee, she begged me to stay home today."), ("Decius", "This dream has been interpreted all wrong. It was a good and lucky vision. Your statue spouting blood through many holes, in which many smiling Romans bathed, means that youll provide great Rome with sustaining blood, and that great men will strive to get some token of approval from your holy blood. This is what Calphurnias dream means."), ("Caesar", "Youve offered an excellent interpretation."), ("Decius", "I will have when you hear the rest of what I have to say. The senate has decided to give mighty Caesar a crown today. If you send them word that you wont come, they might change their minds. Besides, someones likely to joke, Adjourn the senate until some other time, when Caesars wife has had better dreams. If you hide yourself, wont they whisper, Caesar is afraid? Pardon me, Caesar. My high hopes for your advancement force me to tell you this. My love gets the better of my manners."), ("Caesar", "How foolish your fears seem now, Calphurnia! Im ashamed that I yielded to them. Give me my robe, because Im going. And look, heres Publius, come to fetch me."), ("Publius", "Good morning, Caesar."), ("Caesar", "Welcome, Publius. What, Brutus? Are you up this early too? Good morning, Casca. Caius Ligarius, I was never your enemy so much as the sickness thats made you so thin. What time is it?"), ("Brutus", "Caesar, the clock has struck eight."), ("Caesar", "I thank you all for your trouble and courtesy. See! Even Antony, who stays up all night partying, is awake. Good morning, Antony."), ("Antony", "And to you, most noble Caesar."), ("Caesar", "Tell them to prepare the other room for guests. Im to blame for making you wait for me. Now, Cinna. Now, Metellus. Trebonius! I have an hour-long matter to discuss with you. Remember to see me today. Stay near me so Ill remember."), ("Trebonius", "Caesar, I will. (speaking quietly to himself) In fact, Ill be so near that your best friends will wish Id been further away."), ("Caesar", "Good friends, go in and have some wine with me. And well leave together, like friends."), ("Brutus", "(quietly to himself) That we are now only like friendsOh Caesarmakes my heart ache."), ("Artemidorus", "(reading aloud from the letter) Caesar, beware of Brutus. Watch Cassius. Dont go near Casca. Keep an eye on Cinna. Dont trust Trebonius. Pay attention to Metellus Cimber. Decius Brutus doesnt love you. Youve wronged Caius Ligarius. These men all have one intention, and its directed against Caesar. If you arent immortal, watch those around you. A sense of security opens the door to conspiracy. I pray that the mighty gods defend you! Your friend, Artemidorus. Ill stand here until Caesar passes by, and Ill give him this as though its a petition. My heart regrets that good men arent safe from the bite of jealous rivals. If you read this, Caesar, you might live. If not, the Fates are on the side of the traitors."), ("Portia", "Boy, I beg you to run to the senate house. Dont stay to answer meget going. Why are you still standing there?"), ("Lucius", "To find out what you want me to do there, madam."), ("Portia", "I want you there and back again before I can even tell you what you should do there. (to herself, so that no one can hear her) Oh, let my determination keep me from speaking what is in my heart! I have a mans mind, but only a womans strength. How hard it is for women to keep secrets! (to LUCIUS) Are you still here?"), ("Lucius", "Madam, what should I do? Run to the Capitol and nothing else? And then return to you and nothing else?"), ("Portia", "Yes, return and tell me if your master looks well, because he was sick when he left. And pay attention to what Caesar does and which men are close to him. Listen, boy! Whats that noise?"), ("Lucius", "I dont hear anything, madam."), ("Portia", "I beg you, listen well. I heard a noise like a scuffle. The wind brings it from the Capitol."), ("Lucius", "Truly, madam, I dont hear anything."), ("Portia", "Come here, you. Where are you coming from?"), ("Soothsayer", "My own house, good lady."), ("Portia", "What time is it?"), ("Soothsayer", "Around nine o'clock, madam."), ("Portia", "Has Caesar gone to the Capital yet?"), ("Soothsayer", "Madam, not yet. Im going to stand so I can see him pass on the way to the Capitol."), ("Portia", "You have some plea for Caesar, dont you?"), ("Soothsayer", "Yes, I do, lady. If it pleases Caesar to be so good to himself as to hear me, Ill try to get him to do whats good for him."), ("Portia", "Why, do you know of any harm intended toward him?"), ("Soothsayer", "Nothing that I know for sure, but a lot that Im afraid might happen. Good morning to you. The street is narrow here. The crowd that follows Caesar at his heelssenators, justices, common petitionerswill suffocate a feeble man almost to death. Ill move to a more open place and there speak to great Caesar as he walks past."), ("Portia", "I must go in. (speaking quietly to herself) Oh, a womans heart is so weak! Oh Brutus, may the gods aid you in your endeavor! Surely, the boy heard me. (to LUCIUS) Brutus has a claim that Caesar wont grant. Oh, I feel faint. Run, Lucius, and speak well of me to my lord. Say that Im happy. Then return to me and tell me what he says to you."), ("Caesar", "(to the SOOTHSAYER) March 15th has come."), ("Soothsayer", "Yes, Caesar, but its not gone yet."), ("Artemidorus", "(offering his letter) Hail, Caesar! Read this schedule."), ("Decius", "(offering CAESAR another paper) Trebonius wants you to look over his humble petition, at your leisure."), ("Artemidorus", "Oh, Caesar, read mine first, for my petition affects you more directly. Read it, great Caesar."), ("Caesar", "Whatever pertains to myself I will deal with last."), ("Artemidorus", "Dont delay, Caesar. Read it instantly."), ("Caesar", "What, is the man insane?"), ("Publius", "(to ARTEMIDORUS) Stand aside, you."), ("Cassius", "(to ARTEMIDORUS) What? Are you pressing your petition on the street? Go to the Capitol."), ("Popillius", "(to CASSIUS) I hope your endeavor goes well today."), ("Cassius", "What endeavor, Popillius?"), ("Popillius", "Good luck."), ("Brutus", "(to CASSIUS) What did Popillius Lena say?"), ("Cassius", "(speaking so that only BRUTUS can hear) He wished that our endeavor would go well today. Im afraid weve been found out."), ("Brutus", "Look, hes approaching Caesar. Keep an eye on him."), ("Cassius", "Casca, be quick, because were worried we might be stopped. Brutus, what will we do? If our secrets known, either Caesar or I will die, for Ill kill myself."), ("Brutus", "Cassius, stand firm. Popillius Lena wasnt talking about our plotfor, look, hes smiling, and Caesars expression is the same."), ("Cassius", "Trebonius knows his cue. See, Brutus, hes pulling Mark Antony aside."), ("Decius", "Wheres Metellus Cimber? He should go up and offer his petition to Caesar now."), ("Brutus", "Theyre speaking to him. Go up there and second his petition."), ("Cinna", "Casca, youll be the first to raise your hand."), ("Caesar", "Are we all ready? What problem should I discuss with you first?"), ("Metellus", "(kneeling) Most high, most mighty, and most powerful Caesar, Metellus Cimber kneels before you with a humble heart"), ("Caesar", "I have to stop you, Cimber. These kneelings and humble courtesies might excite ordinary men, flattering them into turning Roman law into childrens games. But dont be so foolish as to think you can sway me from whats right by using the tactics that persuade foolsI mean this flattery, low bows, and puppy-like fawning. Your brother has been banished by decree. If you kneel and beg and flatter for him, Ill kick you out of my way like I would a dog. Know that I am not unjust, and I will not grant him a pardon without reason."), ("Metellus", "Is there no voice worthier than my own to appeal to Caesar to repeal the order that my brother be banished?"), ("Brutus", "(kneeling) I kiss your hand, but not in flattery, Caesar. I ask you to repeal Publius Cimbers banishment immediately."), ("Caesar", "What, even you, Brutus?"), ("Cassius", "(kneeling) Pardon him, Caesar, pardon him. I fall to your feet to beg you to restore Publius Cimber to citizenship."), ("Caesar", "I could be convinced if I were like you. If I could beg others to change their minds, begging would convince me, too. But Im as immovable as the northern star, whose stable and stationary quality has no equal in the sky. The sky shows countless stars. Theyre all made of fire, and each one shines. But only one among all of them remains in a fixed position. So it is on earth. The world is full of men, and men are flesh and blood, and they are capable of reason. Yet out of all of them, I know only one who is unassailable, who never moves from his position. To show you that thats me, let me prove it a little even in this case. I was firm in ordering that Cimber be banished, and I remain firm in that decision."), ("Cinna", "(kneeling) Oh, Caesar"), ("Caesar", "Enough! Would you try to lift Mount Olympus?"), ("Decius", "(kneeling) Great Caesar"), ("Caesar", "Havent I resisted even Brutus, begging from his knees?"), ("Casca", "Hands, speak for me!"), ("Caesar", "And you too, Brutus? In that case, die, Caesar. (he dies)"), ("Cinna", "Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead! Run and proclaim it in the streets."), ("Cassius", "Some should go to the public platforms and cry out, Liberty, freedom, and democracy!"), ("Brutus", "People and senators, dont be afraid. Dont run awaystay where you are. Only Caesar had to die for his ambition."), ("Casca", "Go to the platform, Brutus."), ("Decius", "And Cassius too."), ("Brutus", "Wheres Publius?"), ("Cinna", "Here. Hes completely stunned by this mutiny."), ("Metellus", "Stand close together, in case someone loyal to Caesar tries to"), ("Brutus", "Dont talk about standing together. Publius, cheer up. We dont intend any harm to you, nor to anyone else. Tell them this, Publius."), ("Cassius", "And leave us, Publius, in case the people storming us should harm you."), ("Brutus", "Do so. And let no one suffer for this deed except us, the perpetrators."), ("Cassius", "Wheres Antony?"), ("Trebonius", "He ran to his house, stunned. Men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run in the streets as though it were doomsday."), ("Brutus", "Well soon find out what fate has in store for us. All we know is that well die sometime, which is all anyone ever knows, though we try to draw out our days for as long as possible."), ("Cassius", "Why, the man who shortens his life by twenty years cuts off twenty years of worrying about death."), ("Brutus", "So, then, death is a gift, and we are Caesars friends, for weve done him a service by shortening his time spent fearing death. Kneel, Romans, kneel, and lets wash our hands, up to the elbows, in Caesars blood and smear it on our swords. Then well go out, even to the marketplace, and, waving our bloody swords over our heads, lets cry, Peace, freedom, and liberty!"), ("Cassius", "Kneel then, and wash. How many years from now will this heroic scene be reenacted in countries that dont even exist yet and in languages not yet known!"), ("Brutus", "How many times will Caesar bleed again in show, though he now lies at the base of Pompeys statue, as worthless as dust!"), ("Cassius", "As often as its replayed, our group will be hailed as the men who gave their country liberty."), ("Decius", "Well, should we go out?"), ("Cassius", "Yes, every man forward. Brutus will lead, and well follow him with the boldest and best hearts of Rome."), ("Brutus", "Wait a minute. Whos that coming? Its a friend of Antonys."), ("Antony's servant", "(kneeling) Brutus, my master ordered me to kneel like this. (he kneels, head bowed low) He ordered me to kneel low, and, from the ground, like this, he ordered me to say: Brutus is noble, wise, brave, and honest. Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving. Antony loves Brutus and honors him. Antony feared Caesar, honored him, and loved him. If Brutus will swear that Antony may come to him safely and be convinced that Caesar deserved to be killed, Mark Antony will love dead Caesar not nearly as much as living Brutus, and with true faith hell follow the destiny and affairs of noble Brutus through the difficulties of this unprecedented state of affairs. Thats what my master, Antony, says."), ("Brutus", "Your master is a wise and honorable Roman. I never thought any less of him. Tell him, if he comes here, Ill explain everything to him and, on my word, hell leave unharmed."), ("Antony's servant", "(getting up) Ill get him now."), ("Brutus", "I know that hell be on our side."), ("Cassius", "I hope we can count on him, but I still fear him, and my hunches are usually accurate."), ("Brutus", "But here comes Antony. Welcome, Mark Antony."), ("Antony", "Oh, mighty Caesar! Do you lie so low? Have all your conquests, glories, triumphs, achievements, come to so little? Farewell. Gentlemen, I dont know what you intend to do, who else you intend to kill, who else you consider corrupt. If its me, theres no time as good as this hour of Caesars death, and no weapon better than your swords, covered with the noblest blood in the world. I ask you, if you have a grudge against me, to kill me now, while your stained hands still reek of blood. I could live a thousand years and I wouldnt be as ready to die as I am now. Theres no place Id rather die than here by Caesar, and no manner of death would please me more than being stabbed by you, the masters of this new era."), ("Brutus", "Oh, Antony, dont beg us to kill you. Though we seem bloody and cruel right now, with our bloody hands and this deed weve done, youve only seen our hands and their bloody business; you havent looked into our hearts. They are full of pity for Caesar. But a stronger pity, for the wrongs committed against Rome, drove out our pity for Caesar, as fire drives out fire, and so we killed him. For you, our swords have blunt edges, too dull to harm you, Mark Antony. Our arms, which can be strong and cruel, and our hearts, filled with brotherly love, embrace you with kind love, good thoughts, and reverence."), ("Cassius", "Your vote will be as strong as anyones in the reordering of the government."), ("Brutus", "But just be patient until weve calmed the masses, who are beside themselves with fear. Then well explain to you why I, who loved Caesar even while I stabbed him, have taken this course of action."), ("Antony", "I dont doubt your wisdom. Each of you, give me your bloody hand. (he shakes hands with the conspirators) First, Marcus Brutus, I shake your hand. Next, Caius Cassius, I take your hand. Now, Decius Brutus, yours. Now yours, Metellus. Yours, Cinna. And yours, my brave Casca. Last but not least, yours, good Trebonius. You are all gentlemenalas, what can I say? Now that Ive shaken your hands, youll take me for either a coward or a flattererin either case, my credibility stands on slippery ground. Its true that I loved you, Caesarnothing could be truer. If your spirit is looking down upon us now, it must hurt you more than even your death to see your Antony making peaceshaking the bloody hands of your enemiesin front of your corpse. If I had as many eyes as you have wounds, and they wept as fast as your wounds stream bloodeven that would be more becoming than joining your enemies in friendship. Forgive me, Julius! On this very spot you were hunted down, like a brave deer. And here you fell, where your hunters are now standing. The spot is marked by your death and stained by your blood. Oh world, you were the forest to this deer, and this deer, oh world, was your dear. Now you lie here, stabbed by many princes!"), ("Cassius", "Mark Antony"), ("Antony", "Pardon me, Caius Cassius. Even Caesars enemies would say the same. From a friend, its a cool assessmentno more than that."), ("Cassius", "I dont blame you for praising Caesar like this, but what agreement do you intend to reach with us? Will you be counted as our friend, or should we proceed without depending on you?"), ("Antony", "I took your hands in friendship, but, indeed, I was distracted when I looked down at Caesar. I am friends with you all and love you all, on one conditionthat you prove to me that Caesar was dangerous."), ("Brutus", "Without that proof, this wouldve been a savage action! Our reasons are so well considered that even if you, Antony, were Caesars son, you would be satisfied with them."), ("Antony", "Thats all I askand that you let me carry his body to the marketplace and, as a friend ought to do, stand on the platform and give a proper funeral oration."), ("Brutus", "You may, Mark Antony."), ("Cassius", "Brutus, may I have a word with you? (speaking so that only BRUTUS can hear) You dont know what youre doing. Dont let Antony speak at his funeral. Dont you know how much the people could be affected by what he says?"), ("Brutus", "(speaking so that only CASSIUS can hear) With your permission, Ill stand on the platform first and explain the reason for Caesars death. What Antony says, Ill announce, he says only by our permission and by our conviction that Caesar should be honored with all the usual and lawful ceremonies. Itll help us more than hurt us."), ("Cassius", "(speaking so that only BRUTUS can hear) Im worried about the outcome of his speech. I dont like this plan."), ("Brutus", "Mark Antony, take Caesars body. You will not blame us in your funeral speech, but will say all the good you want to about Caesar and that you do it by our permission. Otherwise, youll have no role at all in his funeral. And youll speak on the same platform as I do, after Im done."), ("Antony", "So be it. I dont want anything more."), ("Brutus", "Prepare the body, then, and follow us."), ("Antony", "Oh, pardon me, you bleeding corpse, for speaking politely and acting mildly with these butchers! You are whats left of the noblest man that ever lived. Pity the hand that shed this valuable blood. Over your woundswhich, like speechless mouths, open their red lips, as though to beg me to speakI predict that a curse will fall upon the bodies of men. Fierce civil war will paralyze all of Italy. Blood and destruction will be so common and familiar that mothers will merely smile when their infants are cut to pieces by the hands of war. Peoples capacity for sympathy will grow tired and weak from the sheer quantity of cruel deeds. And Caesars ghost, searching for revenge with the goddess AteAte is the Greek goddess of discord and vengeance. Ate by his side, just up from Hell, will cry in the voice of a king, Havoc! and unleash the dogs of war. This foul deed will stink up to the sky with mens corpses, which will beg to be buried. You serve Octavius Caesar, right?"), ("Octavius's servant", "I do, Mark Antony."), ("Antony", "Caesar wrote for him to come to Rome."), ("Octavius's servant", "He received Caesars letters, and he is coming. He told me to say to you(seeing CAESAR's body) Oh, Caesar!"), ("Antony", "Your heart is big; go ahead and weep. Grief seems to be contagious, for my eyes, seeing the tears in yours, began to fill. Is your master coming?"), ("Octavius's servant", "He rests tonight within twenty-one miles of Rome."), ("Antony", "Report back to him fast and tell him what has happened. This is now a Rome in mourning, a dangerous Rome. Its not safe enough for Octavius yet. Hurry away and tell him so. No, wait, stay a minute. Dont go back until Ive carried the corpse into the marketplace. There Ill use my speech to test what the people think of these bloody mens cruel action. Youll report back to young Octavius how they respond. Help me here."), ("Plebeians", "We want answers. Give us answers."), ("Brutus", "Then follow me and listen to my speech, friends. Cassius, go to the next street and divide the crowd. Let those who will hear me speak stay. Lead those away who will follow you, and well explain publicly the reasons for Caesars death."), ("First plebeian", "Ill listen to Brutus."), ("Second plebeian", "Ill listen to Cassius, and we will compare their reasons."), ("Third plebeian", "Quiet! Noble Brutus has mounted the platform."), ("Brutus", "Be patient until I finish. Romans, countrymen, and friends! Listen to my reasons and be silent so you can hear. Believe me on my honor and keep my honor in mind, so you may believe me. Be wise when you criticize me and keep your minds alert so you can judge me fairly. If theres anyone in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesars, I say to him that my love for Caesar was no less than his. If, then, that friend demands to know why I rose up against Caesar, this is my answer: its not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more. Would you rather that Caesar were living and we would all go to our graves as slaves, or that Caesar were dead and we all lived as free men? I weep for Caesar in that he was good to me. I rejoice in his good fortune. I honor him for being brave. But his ambitionfor that, I killed him. There are tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his bravery, and death for his ambition. Who here is so low that he wants to be a slave? If there are any, speak, for it is he whom Ive offended. Who here is so barbarous that he doesnt want to be a Roman? If there are any, speak, for it is he whom Ive offended. Who here is so vile that he doesnt love his country? If there are any, speak, for it is he whom I have offended. I will pause for a reply."), ("All", "No one, Brutus, no one."), ("Brutus", "Then I have offended no one. Ive done no more to Caesar than you will do to me. The reasons for his death are recorded in the Capitol. His glory has not been diminished where he earned it, nor have those offenses for which he was killed been exaggerated. Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had no part in the killing, will benefit from his deathreceiving a share in the commonwealth, as you all will. With these words I leave. Just as I killed my best friend for the good of Rome, so will I kill myself when my country requires my death."), ("All", "Live, Brutus! Live, live!"), ("First plebeian", "Lets carry him in triumph to his house!"), ("Second plebeian", "Lets build a statue of him, near those of his ancestors!"), ("Third plebeian", "Let him become Caesar!"), ("Fourth plebeian", "Caesars better qualities exist in Brutus, and we will crown him."), ("First plebeian", "Well bring him to his house with shouts and celebration!"), ("Brutus", "My countrymen"), ("Second plebeian", "Silence! Brutus speaks."), ("First plebeian", "Quiet there!"), ("Brutus", "Good countrymen, let me leave alone. I want you to stay here with Antony to pay respects to Caesars corpse and listen to Antonys speech about Caesars glories, which he gives with our permission. I ask that none of you leave, except myself, until Antony has finished."), ("First plebeian", "Lets stay and hear Mark Antony."), ("Third plebeian", "Let him mount the pulpit. Well listen to him. Noble Antony, mount the podium."), ("Antony", "For Brutuss sake, I am indebted to you. (he steps up into the pulpit)"), ("Fourth plebeian", "What does he say about Brutus?"), ("Third plebeian", "He says that for Brutuss sake he finds himself indebted to us all."), ("Fourth plebeian", "Hed better not speak badly of Brutus here."), ("First plebeian", "Caesar was a tyrant."), ("Third plebeian", "Thats for sure. Were lucky that Rome is rid of him."), ("Second plebeian", "Quiet! Lets hear what Antony has to say."), ("Antony", "You gentle Romans"), ("All", "Quiet there! Let us hear him."), ("Antony", "Friends, Romans, countrymen, give me your attention. I have come here to bury Caesar, not to praise him. The evil that men do is remembered after their deaths, but the good is often buried with them. It might as well be the same with Caesar. The noble Brutus told you that Caesar was ambitious. If thats true, its a serious fault, and Caesar has paid seriously for it. With the permission of Brutus and the othersfor Brutus is an honorable man; they are all honorable menI have come here to speak at Caesars funeral. He was my friend, he was faithful and just to me. But Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man. He brought many captives home to Rome whose ransoms brought wealth to the city. Is this the work of an ambitious man? When the poor cried, Caesar cried too. Ambition shouldnt be so soft. Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man. You all saw that on the Lupercal feast day I offered him a kings crown three times, and he refused it three times. Was this ambition? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious. And, no question, Brutus is an honorable man. I am not here to disprove what Brutus has said, but to say what I know. You all loved him once, and not without reason. Then what reason holds you back from mourning him now? Men have become brutish beasts and lost their reason! Bear with me. My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar, and I must pause until it returns to me. (he weeps)"), ("First plebeian", "I think theres a lot of sense in what he says."), ("Second plebeian", "If you think about it correctly, Caesar has suffered a great wrong."), ("Third plebeian", "Has he, sirs? Im worried there will be someone worse to replace him."), ("Fourth plebeian", "Did you hear Antony? Caesar wouldnt take the crown. Therefore its certain that he wasnt ambitious."), ("First plebeian", "If it turns out he wasnt, certain people are going to get it."), ("Second plebeian", "Poor man! Antonys eyes are fiery red from crying."), ("Third plebeian", "There isnt a nobler man than Antony in all of Rome."), ("Fourth plebeian", "Now listen, hes going to speak again."), ("Antony", "Only yesterday the word of Caesar might have stood against the world. Now he lies there worth nothing, and no one is so humble as to show him respect. Oh, sirs, if I stirred your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage, I would offend Brutus and Cassius, who, you all know, are honorable men. I will not do them wrong. I would rather wrong the dead, and wrong myself and you, than wrong such honorable men. But heres a paper with Caesars seal on it. I found it in his roomits his will. If you could only hear this testamentwhich, excuse me, I dont intend to read aloudyou would kiss dead Caesars wounds and dip your handkerchiefs in his sacred blood, and beg for a lock of hair to remember him by. And when you died, you would mention the handkerchief or the hair in your will, bequeathing it to your heirs like a rich legacy."), ("Fourth plebeian", "We want to hear the will. Read it, Mark Antony."), ("All", "The will, the will! We want to hear Caesars will."), ("Antony", "Be patient, gentle friends, I must not read it. It isnt proper for you to know how much Caesar loved you. You arent wood, you arent stonesyoure men. And, being men, the contents of Caesars will would enrage you. Its better that you dont know youre his heirs, for if you knew, just imagine what would come of it!"), ("Fourth plebeian", "Read the will. We want to hear it, Antony. You have to read us the will, Caesars will."), ("Antony", "Will you be patient? Will you wait awhile? Ive said too much in telling you of it. Im afraid that I wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed Caesar."), ("Fourth plebeian", "They were traitors. Honorable men!"), ("All", "The will! The testament!"), ("Second plebeian", "They were villains, murderers. The will! Read the will!"), ("Antony", "You force me to read the will, then? Then make a circle around Caesars corpse, and let me show you the man who made this will. Shall I come down? Will you let me?"), ("All", "Come down."), ("Second plebeian", "Descend."), ("Third plebeian", "Well let you."), ("Fourth plebeian", "Make a circle; stand around him."), ("First plebeian", "Stand away from the hearse. Stand away from the body."), ("Second plebeian", "Make room for Antony, most noble Antony!"), ("Antony", "No, dont press up against me. Stand further away."), ("All", "Stand back. Give him room."), ("Antony", "If you have tears, prepare to shed them now. You all know this cloak. I remember the first time Caesar ever put it on. It was a summers evening; he was in his tent. It was the day he overcame the Nervii warriors. Look, heres where Cassiuss dagger pierced it. See the wound that Casca made. Through this hole beloved Brutus stabbed. And when he pulled out his cursed dagger, see how Caesars blood came with it, as if rushing out a door to see if it was really Brutus who was knocking so rudely. For Brutus, as you know, was Caesars angel. The gods know how dearly Caesar loved him! This was the most unkind cut of all. For when the noble Caesar saw him stab, he understood his beloved Brutuss ingratitude; it was stronger than the violence of traitors, and it defeated him, bursting his mighty heart. And at the base of Pompeys statue, with his cloak covering his face, which was dripping with blood the whole time, great Caesar fell. Oh, what a fall it was, my countrymen! Then you and I and all of us fell down, while bloody treason triumphed. Oh, now you weep, and I sense that you feel pity. These are gracious tears. But if it overwhelms you to look at Caesars wounded cloak, how will you feel, kind men, now? Look at this, here is the manscarred, as you can see, by traitors. (he lifts up CAESAR's cloak)"), ("First plebeian", "Oh, what a sad sight!"), ("Second plebeian", "Oh, noble Caesar!"), ("Third plebeian", "Oh, sad day!"), ("Fourth plebeian", "Oh, traitors, villains!"), ("First plebeian", "Oh, most bloody sight!"), ("Second plebeian", "We will get revenge."), ("All", "Revenge! Lets go after them! Seek! Burn! Set fire! Kill! Slay! Leave no traitors alive!"), ("Antony", "Wait, countrymen."), ("First plebeian", "Quiet there! Listen to the noble Antony."), ("Second plebeian", "Well listen to him, well follow him, well die with him."), ("Antony", "Good friends, sweet friends, dont let me stir you up to such a sudden mutiny. Those who have done this deed are honorable. I dont know what private grudges they had that made them do it. Theyre wise and honorable, and will no doubt give you reasons for it. I havent come to steal your loyalty, friends. Im no orator, as Brutus is. Im only, as you know, a plain, blunt man who loved his friend, and the men who let me speak know this well. I have neither cleverness nor rhetorical skill nor the authority nor gesture nor eloquence nor the power of speech to stir men up. I just speak directly. I tell you what you already know. I show you sweet Caesars woundspoor, speechless mouths!and make them speak for me. But if I were Brutus and Brutus were me, then Id stir you up, and install in each of Caesars wounds the kind of voice that could convince even stones to rise up and mutiny."), ("All", "Well mutiny."), ("First plebeian", "Well burn Brutuss house."), ("Third plebeian", "Lets go, then! Come, find the conspirators!"), ("Antony", "Wait, and listen to me, countrymen."), ("All", "Quiet! Wait! Listen to Antony. Most noble Antony!"), ("Antony", "Why, friends, you dont even know what youre doing yet. What has Caesar done to deserve your love? Alas, you dont know. I must tell you then. Youve forgotten the will I told you about."), ("All", "Yes! The will! Lets stay and hear the will!"), ("Antony", "Heres the will, written under Caesars seal. To every Roman citizen he givesto every individual manseventy-five drachmas."), ("Second plebeian", "Most noble Caesar! Well revenge his death."), ("Third plebeian", "Oh, royal Caesar!"), ("Antony", "Listen to me patiently."), ("All", "Quiet, there!"), ("Antony", "Also, hes left you all his walkwaysin his private gardens and newly planted orchardson this side of the Tiber River. Hes left them to you and to your heirs foreverpublic pleasures in which you will be able to stroll and relax. Here was a Caesar! When will there be another like him?"), ("First plebeian", "Never, never. Lets go! Well burn his body in the holy place and use the brands to set the traitors' houses on fire. Take up the body."), ("Second plebeian", "Well start a fire."), ("Third plebeian", "Well use benches for wood"), ("Fourth plebeian", "And windowsills, anything."), ("Antony", "Now, let it work. Trouble, you have beguntake whatever course you choose! Whats up, my man?"), ("Octavius's servant", "Sir, Octavius has already arrived in Rome."), ("Antony", "Where is he?"), ("Octavius's servant", "He and Lepidus are at Caesars house."), ("Antony", "I will go straight to visit him. I ask for him, and he comes. Fortune is happy today and, in this mood, will give us anything we want."), ("Octavius's servant", "I heard Octavius say that Brutus and Cassius have ridden like madmen through the gates of Rome."), ("Antony", "They probably received warning about how much I stirred up the people. Take me to Octavius."), ("Cinna the poet", "I dreamed last night that I feasted with Caesar, and unlucky signs overwhelmed my imagination. I have no desire to go outside, yet something leads me there."), ("First plebeian", "Whats your name?"), ("Second plebeian", "Where are you going?"), ("Third plebeian", "Where do you live?"), ("Fourth plebeian", "Are you a married man or a bachelor?"), ("Second plebeian", "Answer all of us, now."), ("First plebeian", "Yes, and be brief."), ("Fourth plebeian", "Yes, and be wise."), ("Third plebeian", "Yes, and be truthful, if you know whats good for you."), ("Cinna the poet", "Whats my name? Where am I going? Where do I live? Am I a married man or a bachelor? Then, to answer every man briefly, wisely, and truthfullywisely I say, I am a bachelor."), ("Second plebeian", "You imply that married men are fools. Youll get a blow from me for that, I think. Go on with what you were sayingright this instant."), ("Cinna the poet", "Right this instant, Im going to Caesars funeral."), ("First plebeian", "As a friend or an enemy?"), ("Cinna the poet", "As a friend."), ("Second plebeian", "He answered that question straight."), ("Fourth plebeian", "As for where you live, tell us quicklyget to the point."), ("Cinna the poet", "Getting right to the point, I live near the Capitol."), ("Third plebeian", "Tell us your name, sir, truthfully."), ("Cinna the poet", "Truthfully, my name is Cinna."), ("First plebeian", "Tear him to pieces. Hes a conspirator."), ("Cinna the poet", "I am Cinna the poet, I am Cinna the poet!"), ("Fourth plebeian", "Tear him apart for his bad verses, tear him up!"), ("Cinna the poet", "Im not Cinna the conspirator."), ("Fourth plebeian", "It doesnt matter. His names Cinna. Pull only his name out of his heart and let him go."), ("Third plebeian", "Tear him apart, tear him up!"), ("All", "Come, firebrands, over here! To Brutuss, to Cassiuss, lets burn them all. Some of you go to Deciuss house and some to Cascas. Some to Ligariuss. Go!"), ("Antony", "These ones, then, will be assassinated. Their names are marked."), ("Octavius", "(to LEPIDUS) Your brother has to die too. Do you agree, Lepidus?"), ("Lepidus", "I agree"), ("Octavius", "Put a mark next to his name too, Antony."), ("Lepidus", "On the condition that your sisters son, Publius, also must die, Mark Antony."), ("Antony", "He will die. SeeIve sealed his fate with this mark next to his name. But, Lepidus, go to Caesars house. Bring his will here, and well figure out a way to reduce his bequests to the people."), ("Lepidus", "Will you be here when I return?"), ("Octavius", "Either here or at the Capitol."), ("Antony", "Hes an unremarkable man, fit only to be sent on errands. Does it really make sense, once we divide the world into three parts, that he should be one of the three rulers?"), ("Octavius", "You thought it made sense, and you listened to him about who should be marked to die in these harsh death sentences."), ("Antony", "Octavius, Im older than you are. And although were giving these honors to this man so that he shares some of the blame for what were doing, hell carry these honors like a jackass carries goldgroaning and sweating under the load, either led or pushed, as we direct him. Once hes carried our treasure where we want it, well free him of the load and turn him loose like a jackass, to shake his ears and graze in the public pastures."), ("Octavius", "You can do what you want, but hes an experienced and honorable soldier."), ("Antony", "So is my horse, Octavius, and for that reason I give him all the hay he wants. But my horse is a creature that I teach to fightto turn, to stop, to run in a straight line. I govern the motion of his body. And in some ways, Lepidus is just like that. He has to be taught and trained and told to go forward. Hes an empty man, who pays attention to fashions and tastes that other men took up and got tired of long ago. Dont think about Lepidus except as a means to an end. And now, Octavius, listen to more important things. Brutus and Cassius are raising armies. We have to raise our own immediately. So, we should combine forces and organize our allies, pull together our friends, and stretch our resources as far as theyll go. Lets immediately organize a council to discuss the best way to find out their secrets and the safest way to confront the threats were already faced with."), ("Octavius", "Lets do that, because were hemmed in by many enemies. And even some of the people who smile at us are in fact plotting against us, Im afraid."), ("Brutus", "Stop."), ("Lucillius", "Pass on the command to halt!"), ("Brutus", "Whats happening now, Lucillius? Is Cassius nearby?"), ("Lucillius", "Hes nearby, and Pindarus has come to salute you on behalf of his master."), ("Brutus", "He sends his greetings through a good man. Your master, Pindarus, either because hes changed his mind or been influenced by bad officers, has made me wish we hadnt done some of the things we did. If hes nearby, I want an explanation."), ("Pindarus", "I have no doubt that my noble master will prove himself to be what he is: honorable and noble."), ("Brutus", "I dont doubt him. Can I have a word with you, Lucillius? (takes LUCILLIUS aside) Tell me how Cassius treated you. Put my mind at rest."), ("Lucillius", "He received me with courtesy and sufficient respect, but not with affection, nor with as much open and friendly conversation as he once greeted me."), ("Brutus", "Youve described a warm friend whos cooling off. Remember this, Lucillius. When a friend starts to get sick of you, he treats you artificially. Plain and simple loyalty doesnt make anyone act phony. But insincere men, like horses who are too lively at the start of a race, make a big show of their spirit. But when push comes to shove, they droop like those horses that are all show and slow to a crawl. Is his army approaching?"), ("Lucillius", "They plan to spend the night in Sardis. The larger part, the main body of cavalry, are coming with Cassius."), ("Brutus", "Look! Hes arrived. March to meet him at a dignified pace."), ("Cassius", "Halt."), ("Brutus", "Halt! Pass the order along."), ("First soldier", "Halt!"), ("Second soldier", "Halt!"), ("Third soldier", "Halt!"), ("Cassius", "Most noble brother, you have done me wrong."), ("Brutus", "Let the gods judge me! Do I mistreat even my enemies? No. So how could I possibly wrong a brother?"), ("Cassius", "Brutus, your sober expression is a mask to hide the fact that youve wronged me. And when you do"), ("Brutus", "Cassius, calm down. We know each other well, and you can speak your grievances quietly. Lets not argue here in front of both our armies, which ought to see nothing but love between us. Order them to move back. Then, in my tent, you can elaborate on your complaints, and Ill listen."), ("Cassius", "Pindarus, order our commanders to lead their charges a little ways away from this ground."), ("Brutus", "Lucillius, you do the same, and dont allow anyone to come into our tent until weve finished our conference. Have Lucius and Titinius guard the door."), ("Cassius", "My evidence that you have wronged me is that you condemned and disgraced Lucius Pella for taking bribes here from the Sardinians, and you ignored my letters, where I argued that he was innocent; I know the man."), ("Brutus", "You wronged yourself to write on behalf of such a man."), ("Cassius", "In a time like this, it doesnt make sense to criticize every offense."), ("Brutus", "Ill tell you, Cassius, you yourself have been called greedy and been accused of giving your positions to undeserving men in exchange for gold."), ("Cassius", "Me, greedy! You know, if you were anyone other than Brutus, that speech would be your last."), ("Brutus", "The name of Cassius gives credit to these corrupt actions, and so they go unpunished."), ("Cassius", "Unpunished!"), ("Brutus", "Remember March, March 15th. Didnt great Caesar bleed for the sake of justice? Who among us stabbed him for any cause but justice? Whatdid one of us strike down the most powerful man in the world in order to support robbers? Should we now dirty our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty offices that we hold for whatever money we can get our hands on? Id rather be a dog and howl at the moon than be that kind of Roman."), ("Cassius", "Brutus, do not provoke me. I will not take it. Youre forgetting yourself when you back me into a corner. Im a soldier, more experienced than you, and better able to give orders."), ("Brutus", "Get lost! You are not, Cassius."), ("Cassius", "I am."), ("Brutus", "I say youre not."), ("Cassius", "Dont provoke me any further or Ill forget to restrain myself. If you care about your health, you wont push me any further."), ("Brutus", "Leave, you little man."), ("Cassius", "Is this possible?"), ("Brutus", "Listen to me, for I have something to tell you. Am I required to indulge your rash anger? Does a madman scare me when he stares at me?"), ("Cassius", "Oh gods, oh gods! Must I endure all this?"), ("Brutus", "All this? Yes, and more. Go aheadrage till your proud heart breaks. Show your slaves how mad you are, and make your servants tremble. But meam I going to cower at you and your irritable moods? Youll have to swallow your own poison till it makes you burst before Im going to respond; from now on, Ill make you the butt of my jokes whenever you get sharp with me."), ("Cassius", "Has it come to this?"), ("Brutus", "You say youre a better soldier. Show it! Make your boasts come true, and Ill be thrilled. Im always happy to hear about brave men."), ("Cassius", "You wrong me in every way. You wrong me, Brutus. I said an older soldier, not a better one. Did I say better?"), ("Brutus", "If you did, I dont care."), ("Cassius", "When Caesar was alive, even he wouldnt dare anger me like this."), ("Brutus", "Oh, be quiet. You wouldnt have dared to tempt him so."), ("Cassius", "I wouldnt have dared!"), ("Brutus", "No."), ("Cassius", "What? Not dared to tempt him?"), ("Brutus", "You wouldnt have dared, out of fear for your life."), ("Cassius", "Dont take my love for granted. I might do something Ill be sorry for."), ("Brutus", "Youve already done something you should be sorry for. Your threats dont scare me, Cassius, because Im so secure in my honesty and integrity that they pass me by like a weak breeze. I asked you for a certain amount of gold, which you wouldnt give me. I myself cant raise money by unethical means. Id rather turn my heart into money and my drops of blood into coins than use crooked tactics to wring petty cash from the hardworking hands of peasants. I asked you for gold to pay my soldiers, and you wouldnt give it to me. Was that the Caius Cassius that I knew? And would I have ever done that to you? If I ever get so greedy that I hoard such petty cash from my friends, may the gods dash me to pieces with their thunderbolts!"), ("Cassius", "I didnt refuse you."), ("Brutus", "You did."), ("Cassius", "I didnt. The man who brought my answer to you was a fool. You have broken my heart. A friend should put up with his friends weaknesses, but you exaggerate mine."), ("Brutus", "I dont until you practice them on me."), ("Cassius", "You dont love me."), ("Brutus", "I dont like your faults."), ("Cassius", "A friend would never see those faults."), ("Brutus", "No, a flatterer wouldnt, even if the faults were as huge as Mount Olympus."), ("Cassius", "Come, Antony and young Octavius! Get your revenge on Cassius, because Cassius has grown tired of the world. Hes hated by someone he loves, defied by his brother, rebuked like a servant, all his faults observed, catalogued in a notebook, read, and committed to memory so they can be thrown in his face. Oh, I could weep my soul right out of myself! Theres my dagger (he offers BRUTUS his unsheathed dagger), and heres my bare chest. Inside it is a heart more valuable than PlutosPluto is the god of the underworld, and Plutus is the god of wealth. The two are often confused or combined, as they are here. Plutos silver mine and richer than gold. If youre a Roman, take my heart out. I, who denied you gold, will give you my heart. Strike as you did at Caesar, for I know even when you hated him the most, you still loved him better than you ever loved me."), ("Brutus", "Put away your dagger. Be angry whenever you like, its all right with me. Do whatever you want, and Ill say your insults are just a bad mood. Oh, Cassius, youre partners with a quiet lamb. My anger is like a flint strikinga brief spark, and then Im cold again."), ("Cassius", "Have I lived this long only to be the butt of a joke whenever youre angry or frustrated?"), ("Brutus", "When I said that, I was angry too."), ("Cassius", "You admit it, then? Give me your hand."), ("Brutus", "And my heart too."), ("Cassius", "Oh, Brutus!"), ("Brutus", "Whats the matter?"), ("Cassius", "Do you have enough love for me to be patient when my bad temper, which I inherited from my mother, makes me forget how I should behave?"), ("Brutus", "Yes, Cassius. And from now on, when you get hot with me, Ill assume its your mother speaking and leave it at that."), ("Poet", "(offstage) Let me in to see the generals. Theres a grudge between them, and it isnt a good idea for them to be alone."), ("Lucillius", "(offstage) You cant see them."), ("Poet", "(offstage) Youd have to kill me to stop me."), ("Cassius", "Whats this! Whats the matter?"), ("Poet", "You should be ashamed, generals! What do you think youre doing? Love each other and be friends, like two such men should be. Listen to me, because Im older than you, surely."), ("Cassius", "Ha ha! This mans rhymes are terrible!"), ("Brutus", "(to POET) Get out of here, you! Get away, you rude fellow!"), ("Cassius", "Be patient with him, Brutus. Thats just how he is."), ("Brutus", "Ill humor him when he learns how to behave. What should we do with all these rhyming fools that follow us from post to post? Get out of here, my friend."), ("Cassius", "Away, away, be gone."), ("Brutus", "Lucillius and Titinius, order the commanders to have the men camp for the night."), ("Cassius", "And return to us immediately, bringing Messala with you."), ("Brutus", "(calling offstage) Lucius, bring a bowl of wine."), ("Cassius", "I didnt think you could even be so angry."), ("Brutus", "Oh Cassius, Im tired out by many sorrows."), ("Cassius", "Youre forgetting your StoicThe Stoics were philosophers who maintained that people should accept suffering without complaining. Stoic philosophy if you allow chance misfortunes to upset you."), ("Brutus", "No one bears sorrow better than me. Portia is dead."), ("Cassius", "Portia!"), ("Brutus", "She is dead."), ("Cassius", "How did you manage not to kill me when we argued just now? What an irreplaceable and grievous loss! What sickness did she die of?"), ("Brutus", "She was worried about my absence, and about the fact that young Octavius and Mark Antony have grown so strongwhich I found out at the same time as the news of her death. She became full of despair and, when her attendants were away, swallowed burning coals."), ("Cassius", "And thats how she died?"), ("Brutus", "Yes, like that."), ("Cassius", "Oh, immortal gods!"), ("Brutus", "Dont talk about her anymore. Give me a bowl of wine. With this toast I bury all bad feelings between us, Cassius. (he drinks)"), ("Cassius", "My heart is thirsty for that noble promise. Fill my cup, Lucius, until the wine overflows it. I cannot drink too much of Brutuss love. (he drinks)"), ("Brutus", "Come in, Titinius! Welcome, good Messala. Now lets sit closely around this candle and discuss our needs."), ("Cassius", "Portia, are you really gone?"), ("Brutus", "No more about that, please. Messala, I have received these letters explaining that young Octavius and Mark Antony are rushing toward Philippi and bearing down upon us with a mighty power."), ("Messala", "I have received letters that say the same."), ("Brutus", "And anything else?"), ("Messala", "That with a series of legal writs, Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus have put a hundred senators to death."), ("Brutus", "On that point, our letters dont agree. My letters say only seventy senators were killed, one being Cicero."), ("Cassius", "Cicero too?"), ("Messala", "Cicero is dead, by their decree. (to BRUTUS) Have you received letters from your wife, my lord?"), ("Brutus", "No, Messala."), ("Messala", "And you havent heard any news about her in your letters?"), ("Brutus", "Nothing, Messala."), ("Messala", "I think thats strange."), ("Brutus", "Why do you ask? Have you heard something of her in your letters?"), ("Messala", "No, my lord."), ("Brutus", "Now, as youre a Roman, tell me the truth."), ("Messala", "Then you must take the truth I have to tell like a Roman. Its certain that she is dead, and she died in a strange way."), ("Brutus", "Well, good-bye, Portia. We all must die, Messala. Having already thought about the fact that she would have to die sometime, I can endure her death now."), ("Messala", "Thats the way great men ought to endure great losses."), ("Cassius", "Ive practiced Stoicism with as much devotion as you, but I still couldnt bear this news like you do."), ("Brutus", "Well, lets move on to our work with the living. What do you think of marching to Philippi immediately?"), ("Cassius", "I dont think its a good idea."), ("Brutus", "Why not?"), ("Cassius", "Heres why: itd be better for the enemy to come after us. That way, hell waste his provisions and tire out his soldiers, weakening his own capacities, while we, lying still, are rested, energetic, and nimble."), ("Brutus", "Your reasons are good, but I have better reasons for doing the opposite. The people who live between here and Philippi are loyal to us only because we force them to be. We made them contribute to our efforts against their will. The enemy, marching past them, will add them to its numbers, then come at us refreshed, newly reinforced, and full of courage. Thus we must cut him off from this advantage. If we meet him at Philippi, these people will be at our backs."), ("Cassius", "Listen to me, good brother."), ("Brutus", "Begging your pardon, Ill continue what I was saying. You must also take into account that weve gotten as much from our friends as they can give. Our regiments are full to the brim; our cause is ready. The enemy gets larger each day. We, now at our largest, can only decrease. Theres a tidal movement in mens affairs. Seizing the highest tide leads on to fortune. If high tide is let to pass, all the rest of the voyage of their lives will be marked by difficulty and misery. Its on such a high tide that were now floating, and we must take the current when it is offered, or lose our campaign."), ("Cassius", "If thats what you want, all right. Well go forward with you and meet them at Philippi."), ("Brutus", "Its now late at night, and actions must accommodate bodily needs, which well satisfy with only a short rest. Thats all there is to say."), ("Cassius", "Theres nothing else. Good night. Well rise and leave early tomorrow."), ("Brutus", "Lucius! My nightgown. Farewell, good Messala. Good night, Titinius. Noble, noble Cassius, good night and sleep well."), ("Cassius", "Oh my dear brother! This was a bad start to the night. Lets pray that we never come into conflict like that again. Lets not, Brutus."), ("Brutus", "Everythings fine."), ("Cassius", "Good night, my lord."), ("Brutus", "Good night, good brother."), ("Titinius, messala", "Good night, Lord Brutus."), ("Brutus", "Farewell, everyone. Give me the gown. Wheres your lute?"), ("Lucius", "Here in the tent."), ("Brutus", "What, are you sleepy? Poor boy, I dont blame you; youve stayed awake too long. Call Claudio and some of my other men. Ill have them sleep on cushions in my tent."), ("Lucius", "Varrus and Claudio!"), ("Varrus", "Did you call, my lord?"), ("Brutus", "Sirs, I ask you to sleep in my tent. I might wake you up in a while to send you on an errand to my brother Cassius."), ("Varrus", "If you like, well stand by and wait to do whatever you need."), ("Brutus", "No, please, lie down, good sirs, because I might change my mind. Look, Lucius, heres the book I was searching for. I put it in the pocket of my nightgown."), ("Lucius", "I was sure that you hadnt given it to me."), ("Brutus", "Bear with me, good boy. Ive become very forgetful. Can you stay awake a bit longer and play a few tunes on your lute?"), ("Lucius", "Yes, my lord, if you would like."), ("Brutus", "I would, my boy. I ask too much of you, but youre always willing."), ("Lucius", "Its my duty, sir."), ("Brutus", "I shouldnt make you do more than youre able. I know that young men look forward to their rest."), ("Lucius", "Ive already slept, my lord."), ("Brutus", "That was good planning, and youll sleep some more. I wont keep you very long. If I live through this, Ill be good to you. This is a sleepy tune. Oh, deadening sleep, have you taken over my boy who plays music for you? Gentle boy, good night. I wont trouble you so much as to wake you. If you were to droop down, youd break your instrument, and so Ill take it from you. Good night, good boy. Let me see, let me see. Didnt I turn down the page where I left off reading? Here it is, I think. This candle doesnt give much light. What! Who goes there? I think its my bad eyesight thats making me see this horrible vision. Its coming toward me. Are you real? Are you a god, an angel, or a devil, that you make my blood turn cold and my hair stand up? Tell me what you are."), ("Ghost", "Im your evil spirit, Brutus."), ("Brutus", "Why do you come here?"), ("Ghost", "To tell you that youll see me at Philippi."), ("Brutus", "Then Ill see you again?"), ("Ghost", "Yes, at Philippi."), ("Brutus", "Alright, then Ill see you at Philippi. Just as you go, I find the courage to talk to you. Evil spirit, I want to talk some more. Boy, Lucius! Varrus! Claudio! Sirs, awake! Claudio!"), ("Lucius", "My lord, the strings are out of tune."), ("Brutus", "He thinks hes still playing his instrument. Lucius, wake up!"), ("Lucius", "My lord?"), ("Brutus", "Were you dreaming, Lucius? Is that why you cried out?"), ("Lucius", "My lord, I dont think I cried out."), ("Brutus", "Yes, you did. Did you see anything?"), ("Lucius", "Nothing, my lord."), ("Brutus", "Go back to sleep, Lucius. Claudio! (to VARRUS) You there, wake up!"), ("Varrus", "My lord?"), ("Claudio", "My lord?"), ("Brutus", "Why did you cry out in your sleep?"), ("Varrus, claudio", "Did we, my lord?"), ("Brutus", "Yes. Did you see anything?"), ("Varrus", "No, my lord, I didnt see anything."), ("Claudio", "Me neither, my lord."), ("Brutus", "Go to my brother Cassius. Order him to advance his forces first thing, and well follow."), ("Varrus, claudio", "Yes, my lord."), ("Octavius", "Now, Antony, our prayers have been answered. You said the enemy wouldnt come down but keep to the hills and upper regions. It seems not. Their forces are nearby. They intend to challenge us here at Philippi, responding to our challenge before weve even challenged him."), ("Antony", "I know how they think, and I understand why theyre doing this. They really wish they were somewhere else, but they want to descend on us, looking fierce so well think theyre brave. But they arent."), ("Messenger", "Prepare yourselves, generals. The enemy approaches with great display. They show their bloody heralds of battle, and something must be done immediately."), ("Antony", "Octavius, lead your forces slowly out to the left side of the level field."), ("Octavius", "Ill go to the right side. You stay on the left."), ("Antony", "Why are you defying me in this urgent matter?"), ("Octavius", "Im not defying you, but its what Im going to do."), ("Brutus", "Theyve stopped. They want to talk."), ("Cassius", "Stay here, Titinius. We have to go out and talk to them."), ("Octavius", "Mark Antony, should we give the signal to attack?"), ("Antony", "No, Octavius Caesar, well respond to their charge. Go forward. The generals want to speak with us."), ("Octavius", "(to his army) Dont move until we give the signal."), ("Brutus", "Words before fighting. Is that how it is, countrymen?"), ("Octavius", "Not that we love words more than fighting, like you do."), ("Brutus", "Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius."), ("Antony", "Brutus, you give a nice speech along with your evil strokes. Think of the hole you made in Caesars heart when you cried, Long live Caesar! Hail Caesar!"), ("Cassius", "Antony, we dont yet know what kind of blows you can inflict. But your words are as sweet as honeyyouve stolen from the bees and left them with nothing."), ("Antony", "I took their stings too, wouldnt you say?"), ("Brutus", "Oh, yes, and youve left them silent too, because you stole their buzzing, Antony. You very wisely warn us before you sting."), ("Antony", "Villains, you didnt do even that much when your vile daggers struck each other as they hacked up Caesars sides. You smiled like apes and fawned like dogs and bowed like servants, kissing Caesars feet. And all the while, damned Casca, like a dog, struck Caesar on the neck from behind. Oh, you flatterers!"), ("Cassius", "Flatterers! Now, Brutus, you have only yourself to thank. Antony wouldnt be here to offend us today if youd listened to me earlier."), ("Octavius", "Come, come, lets remember why were here. If arguing makes us sweat, the real trial will turn that water to blood. (he draws his sword) Look: I draw my sword against conspirators. When do you think Ill put it away? Never, until Caesars thirty-three wounds are well avenged, or until I too have been killed by you."), ("Brutus", "Caesar, youre not going to be killed by a traitorunless you kill yourself.."), ("Octavius", "I hope youre right. I wasnt born to die on your sword."), ("Brutus", "If you were the noblest of your family, young man, you couldnt die more honorably."), ("Cassius", "An annoying schoolboy, unworthy of such an honor, joined by a masquerader and a partier!"), ("Antony", "Still the same old Cassius!"), ("Octavius", "Come Antony, lets go. Traitors, we defy you. If you dare to fight today, come to the field. If not, come when you have the courage."), ("Cassius", "Now let the wind blow, waves swell, and ships sink! The storm has begun and everything is at stake."), ("Brutus", "Lucillius! Id like a word with you."), ("Lucillius", "(coming forward) My lord?"), ("Cassius", "Messala!"), ("Messala", "(coming forward) What is it, my general?"), ("Cassius", "Messala, today is my birthdayI was born on this very day. Give me your hand, Messala. Youll be my witness that Ive been forced, as Pompey was, to wager all of our freedoms on one battle. You know that I used to believe in Epicurus and his disregard for omens. Ive changed my mind now and partly believe in omens. Traveling from Sardis, two mighty eagles fell on our front flag and perched there, eating from the hands of the soldiers whod accompanied us to Philippi. This morning, theyve flown away and in their place are ravens, crows, and kites, flying over our heads and looking down on us, as though we were sickly prey. Their shadows are like a deadly canopy, under which our army lies, ready to die."), ("Messala", "Dont believe in this."), ("Cassius", "I only partly believe it, for Im enthusiastic and resolved to meet all dangers without wavering."), ("Brutus", "(returning with LUCILLIUS) Right, Lucillius."), ("Cassius", "Now, most noble Brutus, the gods are friendly with us today so that we, who want peace, can live on to old age! But since the affairs of men are always uncertain, lets think about the worst that may happen. If we lose this battle, this is the last time well speak to each other. If we lose, what do you plan to do?"), ("Brutus", "By the same principle that made me condemn Cato for committing suicide, I plan to be patient and submit to what the gods decide. I dont know why, but I find it cowardly and vile to kill oneself early to prevent possible suffering later on."), ("Cassius", "Then if we lose this battle, youll be willing to be led in chains through the streets of Rome?"), ("Brutus", "No, Cassius, no. Dont imagine that Ill ever allow myself to return to Rome in chains. My mind is too great for that. But today, the work that March 15th began must end, and I dont know if well meet again. Therefore, accept my everlasting farewell. Forever and forever, farewell, Cassius! If we meet again, then well smile. If not, then this parting was well done."), ("Cassius", "Forever and forever, farewell, Brutus! If we meet again, then well smile indeed. If not, its true, this parting was well done."), ("Brutus", "Well, lead on. Oh, I wish I could know what will happen today before it happens! But its enough to know that the day will end, and then the end will be known. Come! Lets go!"), ("Brutus", "Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these dispatches to our forces on the other side. They should advance immediately, because I sense Octaviuss side is a bit fainthearted right now, and a sudden push would overthrow him. Ride, ride, Messala. Let Cassiuss wing mount a surprise attack."), ("Cassius", "Oh, look, Titinius, look! Those villains, our soldiers, flee! Ive become an enemy to my own soldiers! This standard-bearer here of mine was running away, so I killed him and took the flag from him. (points to his flag)"), ("Titinius", "Oh, Cassius, Brutus gave the orders too soon. Having an advantage over Octavius, he took it too eagerly, and his soldiers began looting, and now were surrounded by Antonys men."), ("Pindarus", "Retreat further, my lord, retreat further. Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord. Therefore you must run, noble Cassius."), ("Cassius", "This hill is far enough. Look, look, Titinius. Are those my tents on fire?"), ("Titinius", "They are, my lord."), ("Cassius", "Titinius, if you love me, get on your horse and spur him on until hes brought you to those troops and back again, so that I can find out whether those troops are friends or enemies."), ("Titinius", "Ill be back quicker than you can think a thought."), ("Cassius", "Go, Pindarus, climb a little higher on this hill. My eyesight has always been bad. Watch Titinius and tell me what you see in the field. Today was the day I breathed my first breath. Time has come round, and Ill end where I began. My life has run its circle. (to PINDARUS) What can you see, boy?"), ("Pindarus", "(above) Oh, my lord!"), ("Cassius", "What news?"), ("Pindarus", "(above) Titinius is surrounded by horsemen who are quickly approaching him, yet he spurs onward. Now theyre almost on him. Now, Titinius! Now some dismount. Oh, he gets down too. Hes taken. And listen! They shout for joy."), ("Cassius", "Come down, look no more. Oh, Im such a coward for living long enough to see my best friend taken before my eyes! Come here, boy. I took you prisoner in Parthia, and at that time I made you swear to try to do whatever I ordered you to, except take your own life. Come now, keep your oath. (gives his sword to PINDARUS) Now youll be a free man. Take this good sword, which ran through Caesars bowels, and plunge it in my chest. Dont hesitate. Here, take the handle, and when my face is covered as it is now, use the sword. Caesar, you are revenged with the very same sword that killed you. (he dies)"), ("Pindarus", "So Im free. But I didnt want to be free like this. Oh, Cassius, Ill run far from this country to where no Romans can find me."), ("Messala", "The armies have merely changed places, Titinius, because Octavius has been overthrown by noble Brutuss forces at the very moment that Antony overthrew Cassiuss legions."), ("Titinius", "This news will comfort Cassius."), ("Messala", "Where did you leave him?"), ("Titinius", "On this hill and in despair, with his slave Pindarus."), ("Messala", "Isnt that him on the ground?"), ("Titinius", "He doesnt seem to be alive. Oh, my heart!"), ("Messala", "Isnt that him?"), ("Titinius", "No, it was him, Messala, but Cassius is no more. Just as the suns rays turn red when it sets, so Cassius has ended his life in a pool of red blood. The sun of Rome has set! Our day is over. Clouds, dew, and dangers approach. Were finished! He didnt believe I would ever return on my mission, and so he killed himself."), ("Messala", "Yes, he killed himself because he thought wed lost the whole battle. Sadness, which misconstrues reality, gave birth to his errors in thinkingand then destroyed him."), ("Titinius", "Pindarus! Where are you, Pindarus?"), ("Messala", "Look for him, Titinius, while I go to meet the noble Brutus and force him to hear this news. I say force because Brutus would rather I stuck sharp blades and poisoned arrows in his ears than fill them with this."), ("Titinius", "Hurry, Messala, and Ill look for Pindarus in the meantime. Why did you send me out, brave Cassius? Didnt I meet up with your allies? And didnt they place the wreath of victory on my brow and order me to give it to you? Didnt you hear their shouts? Alas, you misunderstood everything! But let me place this wreath on your head. Your Brutus ordered me to give it to you, and Ill do what he says. (he lays a wreath on CASSIUSs head) Brutus, come this way and see how much I admired Caius Cassius. With your permission, gods, this is a Romans duty. Come, Cassiuss sword, and strike Titiniuss heart. (he stabs himself with CASSIUSs sword and dies.)"), ("Brutus", "Where is his body, Messala?"), ("Messala", "Over there, where Titinius mourns it."), ("Brutus", "Titinius is lying face-up."), ("Cato", "Hes been killed."), ("Brutus", "Oh, Julius Caesar, you are still powerful. Your ghost walks the earth and turns our swords toward our own stomachs."), ("Cato", "Brave Titinius! Look, he even put the crown on dead Cassius!"), ("Brutus", "Could you have found two Romans as good as these two? Good-bye to you, the last of all the Romans. Rome will never produce your equal. Friends, I owe more tears to this dead man than you will see me shed. I will find the time to cry for you, Cassius, Ill find the time. Come, then, and send his body to Thasos. We wont have his funeral at our camp, because it might make us too sad to fight. Lucillius, come. And come, young Cato. Lets proceed to the field. Labio and Flavio, push our armies onward. It is three o'clock, and, Romans, before night, we will try our luck in a second battle."), ("Brutus", "Keep on, countrymen. Oh, keep your heads up, even now!"), ("Cato", "Who is so low that he wouldnt? Who will advance with me? I will proclaim my name around the field. I am the son of Marcus Cato! An enemy to tyrants and a friend to my country. I am the son of Marcus Cato!"), ("Lucillius", "And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus. Brutus, my countrys friend. Know that I am Brutus! Oh, young and noble Cato, have you been slain? Why, you die now as bravely as Titinius. And you, being Catos son, will be honored."), ("First soldier", "(to LUCILLIUS ) Surrender or you will die."), ("Lucillius", "Id rather die. Here is some money for you to kill me immediately. Kill Brutus and be honored by the killing."), ("First soldier", "We must not. He is a noble prisoner!"), ("Second soldier", "Make room! Tell Antony that Brutus has been taken."), ("First soldier", "Ill tell him the news. Oh, here comes the generalBrutus has been caught, Brutus is taken, my lord."), ("Antony", "Where is he?"), ("Lucillius", "Hes safe, Antony. I can assure you that no enemy will ever take the noble Brutus alive. The gods protect him from so great a shame! When you do find him, alive or dead, hell be found on his own terms."), ("Antony", "(to SOLDIERS) This isnt Brutus, friend, but, I assure you, he is a valuable prize. Keep this man safe. Be kind to him. I would rather have such men as friends than enemies. Move on, find out if Brutus is alive or dead, then return to Octaviuss tent to tell us what youve learned."), ("Brutus", "Come, last of my friends, rest on this rock."), ("Clitus", "Statilius waved the torchlight at us, but he hasnt come back. Hes been captured or killed."), ("Brutus", "Sit down, Clitus. Killed, most likelyits become a trend. Listen, Clitus. (he whispers to CLITUS)"), ("Clitus", "Who, me, my lord? No, not for all the world."), ("Brutus", "Silence, then! Dont give it away."), ("Clitus", "Id rather kill myself."), ("Brutus", "Listen, Dardanius. (he whispers to DARDANIUS)"), ("Dardanius", "Would I dare do something like that?"), ("Clitus", "Oh Dardanius!"), ("Dardanius", "Oh Clitus!"), ("Clitus", "(speaking so that only DARDANIUS can hear) What awful thing did Brutus ask of you?"), ("Dardanius", "(speaking so that only CLITUS can hear) To kill him, Clitus. Look, hes meditating on what to do."), ("Clitus", "(speaking so that only DARDANIUS can hear) That noble man is so full of grief that it spills out of his eyes."), ("Brutus", "Come here, good Volumnius. Listen a minute."), ("Volumnius", "What is it, my lord?"), ("Brutus", "Just this, Volumnius. The ghost of Caesar has appeared to me at night twice. Once at Sardis and once last night, here in Philippi fields. I know that my hour has come."), ("Volumnius", "No, it hasnt, my lord."), ("Brutus", "No, Im sure it has, Volumnius. You see how the world goes, Volumnius. Our enemies have driven us to the edge of the grave. Its nobler to leap in ourselves than dawdle until they push us. Good Volumnius, you know that we went to school together. For the sake of our old friendship, I ask you, hold my sword handle while I run on it."), ("Volumnius", "Thats not a job for a friend, my lord."), ("Clitus", "Run, run, my lord. We cant wait here."), ("Brutus", "Farewell to you, and you, and you, Volumnius. Strato, youve slept this whole time. Farewell to you too, Strato. Countrymen, my heart rejoices that in all my life I knew no men who were untrue to me. Ill have glory in this losing daymore than Octavius and Mark Antony will gain by their foul conquest. So farewell, all, for my tongue has almost finished with its life. I cant see ahead of me. My bones want to rest after helping me up to this hour."), ("Clitus", "Run, my lord, run."), ("Brutus", "Go on! Ill follow. I beg you, Strato, stay by me. Youre a man with a good reputation. Your life has had honor in it. Then, hold my sword and turn your face away while I run on it. Will you, Strato?"), ("Strato", "Give me your hand, first. (holds BRUTUS' sword) Farewell, my lord."), ("Brutus", "Farewell, good Strato. (runs on his sword) Caesar, you can rest now. I didnt kill you half as willingly. (he dies)"), ("Octavius", "What man is that?"), ("Messala", "My masters man. Strato, wheres your master?"), ("Strato", "Free from the bondage you are in, Messala. The conquerors can only make a fire of him, because only Brutus triumphed over himself, and no other man gets to triumph in his death."), ("Lucillius", "Its fitting that Brutus be found like this. Thank you, Brutus, for proving my prediction true."), ("Octavius", "Ill take all who served Brutus into my service. You, will you join with me?"), ("Strato", "Yes, if Messala recommends me to you."), ("Octavius", "Do so, good Messala."), ("Messala", "How did my master die, Strato?"), ("Strato", "I held the sword and he ran on it."), ("Messala", "Then take this man into your service, Octavius, for he did the final service to my master."), ("Antony", "This was the noblest Roman of them all. All the rest of the conspirators acted out of jealousy of great Caesar. Only he acted from honesty and for the general good. His life was gentle, and the elements mixed so well in him that Nature might stand up and say to all the world, This was a man."), ("Octavius", "Lets treat him according to his virtue, with all the respect and rituals of burial. His body will lie in my tent tonight, with the honorable observance that suits a soldier. So order the armies to rest, and lets go home to share the glories of this happy day.")]