[("Kent", "I thought the king preferred the Duke of Albany to the Duke of Cornwall."), ("Gloucester", "We used to think so too. But the way hes divided the kingdom recently, nobody can tell which of the dukes he favors more. Hes split the kingdom so evenly that its impossible to see any indication of favoritism."), ("Kent", "(pointing to EDMUND) Isnt this your son, my lord?"), ("Gloucester", "Yes, Ive been responsible for his upbringing. Ive had to acknowledge that hes my son so many times that now I can do it without embarrassment."), ("Kent", "I cant conceive of what you mean."), ("Gloucester", "You cant conceive? Well, this guys mother could conceive him all to well. She grew a big belly and had a baby for her crib before she had a husband for her bed. Do you smell something naughty?"), ("Kent", "Well, I wouldnt want to undo the naughtiness, since the boy turned out so well."), ("Gloucester", "But I have a legitimate son a few years older than this one, and I dont love him any more than I love my bastard. Edmund may have snuck into the world a little before his time, but his mother was pretty, we had a fun time making him, and now I have to acknowledge the guy as my son. Do you know this gentleman, Edmund?"), ("Edmund", "No, I dont, my lord."), ("Gloucester", "(to EDMUND) This is Lord Kent. Remember him as my friend and an honorable man."), ("Edmund", "Very pleased to meet you, my lord."), ("Kent", "I look forward to getting to know you better."), ("Edmund", "Ill try to make myself worth your knowledge."), ("Gloucester", "Hes been gone for nine years and hes leaving again soon. The king is coming."), ("Lear", "Go escort the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester."), ("Gloucester", "Yes, my lord."), ("Lear", "In the meantime Ill get down to my real business. Hand me that map over there. I hereby announce that Ive divided my kingdom into three parts, which Im handing over to the younger generation so I can enjoy a little rest and peace of mind in my old age. Cornwall and Albany, my loving sons-in-law, I now want to announce publicly what each of my daughters will inherit, to avoid hostilities after I die. The two great princes of France and Burgundy, vying for the hand of my youngest Cordelia, have been at my court a long time and will soon have their answers. My daughters, since Im about to give up my throne and the worries that go along with it, tell me which one of you loves me most, so that I can give my largest gift to the one who deserves it most. Goneril, my oldest daughter, you speak first."), ("Goneril", "Sir, I love you more than words can say. I love you more than eyesight, space, and freedom, beyond wealth or anything of value. I love you as much as life itself, and as much as status, health, beauty, or honor. I love you as much as any child has ever loved her father, with a love too deep to be spoken of. I love you more than any answer to the question How much?"), ("Cordelia", "(to herself) What will I say? I can only love and be silent."), ("Lear", "I give you all this land, from this line to that onedense forests, fertile fields, rivers rich with fish, wide meadows. This land will belong to your and Albanys children forever. And now what does my second daughter Regan, the wife of Cornwall, have to say? Tell me."), ("Regan", "Sir, Im made of the same stuff as my sister and consider myself just as good as she is. Shes described my feelings of love for you precisely, but her description falls a little short of the truth. I reject completely any joy except my love for you, and I find that only your majestys love makes me happy."), ("Cordelia", "(to herself) Poor me, what am I going to say now? But Im not poor in lovemy love is bigger than my words are."), ("Lear", "You and your heirs hereby receive this large third of our lovely kingdom, no smaller in area or value than what I gave Goneril. Now, you, my youngest daughter, my joy, courted by the rich rulers of France and Burgundy, what can you tell me that will make me give you a bigger part of my kingdom than I gave your sisters? Speak."), ("Cordelia", "Nothing, my lord."), ("Lear", "Nothing?"), ("Cordelia", "Nothing."), ("Lear", "Come on, nothing will get you nothing. Try again."), ("Cordelia", "Im unlucky. I dont have a talent for putting my hearts feelings into words. I love you as a child should love her father, neither more nor less."), ("Lear", "What are you saying, Cordelia? Revise your statement, or you may damage your inheritance."), ("Cordelia", "My lord, you brought me up and loved me, and Im giving back just as I should: I obey you, love you, and honor you. How can my sisters speak the truth when they say they love only you? Dont they love their husbands too? Hopefully when I get married, Ill give my husband half my love and half my sense of duty. Im sure Ill never get married in the way my sisters say theyre married, loving their father only."), ("Lear", "But do you mean what youre saying?"), ("Cordelia", "Yes, my lord."), ("Lear", "So young and so cruel?"), ("Cordelia", "So young, my lord, and honest."), ("Lear", "Then thats the way itll be. The truth will be all the inheritance you get. I swear by the sacred sun, by the mysterious moon, and by all the planets that rule our lives, that I disown you now as my daughter. As of now, there are no family ties between us, and I consider you a stranger to me. Foreign savages who eat their own children for dinner will be as close to my heart as you, ex-daughter of mine."), ("Kent", "But sir"), ("Lear", "Be quiet, Kent. Dont get in my way when Im angry. I loved Cordelia most of all and planned to spend my old age with her taking care of me. (to CORDELIA) Go away! Get out of my sight! I guess if she doesnt love her father, then Ill only have peace when Im dead. Call the King of France. Why is nobody doing anything? Call the Duke of Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany, you and your wives can divide this last third of my kingdom between you. If she wants to be proud, or honest, as she calls it, she can just marry her own pride. I hereby grant to you two my crown and all the privileges that kingship brings. Ill live one month with one of you, the next month with the other one. All I ask is that you provide me with a hundred knights for my own entourage. Ill keep only the title of king, but youll have everything else: all the authority and income that come with kingship. To confirm all this, take this crown to share between yourselves. (he gives CORNWALL and ALBANY the crown)"), ("Kent", "King Lear, Ive always honored you as king, loved you as my father, obeyed you as my master, and thanked you in my prayers"), ("Lear", "Im furious and ready to snap. Stay away or else Ill take my anger out on you."), ("Kent", "Let your anger fall on me then, even if its sharpness pierces my heart. Kent can speak rudely when Lear goes mad. What are you doing, old man? When powerful kings cave in to flatterers, do you think loyal men will be afraid to speak out against it? When a majestic king starts acting silly, then its my duty to be blunt. Hold on to your crown and use your better judgment to rethink this rash decision. On my life I swear to you that your youngest daughter doesnt love you least. A loud mouth often points to an empty heart, and just because shes quiet doesnt mean shes unloving."), ("Lear", "Kent, if you want to stay alive, stop talking."), ("Kent", "I never considered my life as anything more than a chess pawn for you to play off against your enemies. Im not afraid to lose it if it helps protect you."), ("Lear", "Get out of my sight!"), ("Kent", "Learn to see better, Lear, and let me stay here where you can look to me for good advice."), ("Lear", "Now, I swear by Apollo"), ("Kent", "By Apollo, King, youre taking the names of the gods in vain."), ("Lear", "Oh, you lowlife! Scum!"), ("Albany, cornwall", "Please stop, sir."), ("Kent", "Sure, kill the doctor whos trying to cure you and pay your disease. Take back your gift to Albany and Cornwall. If you dont, then as long as Im able to speak Ill keep telling you youve done a bad, bad thing."), ("Lear", "Listen to me, you traitor. Youll pay the price for trying to make me go back on the vow I made when I bequeathed my kingdom to them. Ive never broken a vow yet. You tried to make me revise my judgment on my youngest daughter, disrespecting my power as kingwhich I cant put up with either as a ruler or as a person. This is your punishment: Ill give you five days to gather together what you need to survive, then on the sixth day youll leave this kingdom that hates you. If the day after that youre found in my kingdom, you die. Now get out of here! I swear by Jupiter Ill never revoke this punishment."), ("Kent", "Farewell, King. If this is how you act, its clear that freedom has been banished from this kingdom.(to CORDELIA) I hope the gods will protect you, my dear girl, for thinking fairly and speaking correctly. (to REGAN and GONERIL) And you two, I hope your actions carry out your grand promises of love, so that big words can bring big results. Farewell to all of you. Ill carry on my old life in a new land."), ("Gloucester", "Here are the rulers of France and Burgundy, my lord."), ("Lear", "My lord the ruler of Burgundy, Ill speak to you first. Youve been competing with this king for my daughter. Whats the least that you will settle for as a dowry? A dowry is a payment traditionally made to a husband by his father-in-law at the time of marriage.dowry?"), ("Burgundy", "Your highness, I want nothing more than what youve already offered. I know youll offer nothing less than that."), ("Lear", "Burgundy, I valued her highly when I cared about her. But now her price has fallen. There she is, over there. If theres anything you like about that worthless little thing, then go for it. Shes all yours. But what you see is what you gether only dowry is my disapproval. There she is."), ("Burgundy", "I dont know what to say."), ("Lear", "Shes got big flaws. She has no friends or protectors. I no longer love her. Her only dowry is my curse and banishment. So do you take her or leave her?"), ("Burgundy", "Im sorry, sir, but nobody can make a choice like this in such circumstances."), ("Lear", "Then leave her, sir. I swear to God shes not worth anything more than what I told you. (to FRANCE) And as for you, great King of France, Id never insult our friendship by encouraging you to marry a girl I hate. So I beg you to look around for a better match than this wretched creature that you can barely call human."), ("France", "This is very odd. Until very recently she was your favorite, the object of all your praise and the delight of your old age. Its strange that someone so dear to you could do anything so horrible as to warrant this sudden hatred. Her crime must be extreme and monstrous, or else your earlier love for her wasnt as true as it seemed. But itd take a miracle to make me believe she could do anything that horrible."), ("Cordelia", "(to LEAR) Please, your majesty, I dont have a glib way with words and I only say what I mean. If I decide to do something, then I do it instead of talking about it. So I beg your majesty to let people know that it wasnt because I did something atrocious that I fell from your favor. I didnt murder or commit any immoral or lustful act. Im out of favor simply because Im not a fortune-hunter and I dont have a smooth way with wordsand Im a better person because of it, even though it has cost me your love."), ("Lear", "Enough. It wouldve been better for you not to have been born at all than to displease me as you did."), ("France", "You mean this is the whole problem, that she is shy and hasnt said everything she means to say and do? My lord of Burgundy, what do you have to say to this lady? Loves not love when it gets mixed up with irrelevant outside matters. Will you marry her? She herself is as valuable as any dowry could ever be."), ("Burgundy", "(to LEAR) King, just give me the dowry you promised me, and Ill make Cordelia the Duchess of Burgundy right away."), ("Lear", "No, Ill give nothing. I wont budge on that."), ("Burgundy", "(to CORDELIA) In that case, Im sorry you have to lose me as a husband because you lost the king as a father."), ("Cordelia", "Peace to you, my lord of Burgundy. Since you love money and power so much, I wont be your wife."), ("France", "Beautiful Cordelia, youre all the richer now that youre poor. Youre more valuable now that youre rejected and more loved now that youre hated. Ill take you and your wonderful virtues here and now, if its okay that Im picking up what others have thrown away. Its so strange that in neglecting you so cruelly, the gods have made me love you so dearly. King, the daughter youve rejected is now mine, as Queen of France. No Duke of spineless Burgundy can take this treasure of a girl from me now. Say goodbye to them, Cordelia, even though theyve been unkind to you. Youll find a much better place in France than what youre giving up here."), ("Lear", "Shes yours, King of France. Take her. Shes no longer my daughter, and Ill never see her face again. (to CORDELIA) So get out of here. Leave without any blessing or love from me. Come with me, Burgundy."), ("France", "Say goodbye to your sisters."), ("Cordelia", "Sisters, you whom our father loves so dearly, I leave you now with tears in my eyes. I know you for what you really are, but as your sister Im reluctant to criticize you. Take good care of our father and show him the love that you have professed. I leave him in your carebut oh, if only I were still in his favor I could arrange for better care for him. Goodbye to you both."), ("Regan", "Dont tell us what our duty is."), ("Goneril", "You should focus instead on pleasing your husband, whos taken you in as an act of charity. Youve failed to obey your father and you deserve to be deprived of everything thats been taken away from you."), ("Cordelia", "Time will tell what youve got up your sleeve. You can be deceitful in the short term, but eventually truth will come out. Have a good life."), ("France", "Come with me, my dear Cordelia."), ("Goneril", "Sister, I have a lot to say about things that concern us both. I think that our father will leave here tonight."), ("Regan", "Yes, Im sure he willto stay with you. Next month hell stay with us."), ("Goneril", "Hes so flighty in his old age, as we keep noticing. He has always loved Cordelia best, and his bad judgment in disowning her now is obvious."), ("Regan", "Hes going senile. But then again hes never really understood his own feelings very well."), ("Goneril", "Yes, he was hotheaded even in the prime of his life. Now that hes old, we can expect to have to deal not only with his old character flaws, which have turned into deep-rooted habits, but also with the uncontrollable crabbiness that comes with old age."), ("Regan", "Well probably witness many more outbursts from him, like banishing Kent."), ("Goneril", "Theres still the King of Frances farewell ceremony. Lets put our heads together. If our father continues to use his authority as usual, then his recent abdication of the kingdom will just hurt us."), ("Regan", "Well have to think about it carefully."), ("Goneril", "We have to strike while the irons hot."), ("Edmund", "I only worship whats natural, not whats manmade. Why should I let myself be tortured by manmade social customs that deprive me of my rights simply because I was born twelve or fourteen months later than my older brother? Why do they call me bastard and lowlife when Im just as gifted in mind and body as legitimate children? Why do they call us bastards lowlifes? Always lowlife, bastard, lowlife, lowlife. At least we bastards were conceived in a moment of passionate lust rather than in a dull, tired marriage bed, where half-sleeping parents monotonously churn out a bunch of sissy kids. All right then, legitimate brother Edgar, I have to have your lands. Our father loves me just as much as the legitimate Edgar. What a nice word that is, legitimate! Well, my legitimate Edgar, if this letter works and my plan succeeds, Edmund the lowlife will beat the legitimate. Look out, Im on my way up. Three cheers for bastards!"), ("Gloucester", "Kents been banished just like that? And the King of France gone in a huff? And King Lears abdicated his authority, making his kingship a ceremonial title only? All this so suddenly? Edmund, whats going on? Whats the news?"), ("Edmund", "(pocketing the letter) No news, my lord."), ("Gloucester", "Why are you hiding that letter?"), ("Edmund", "I dont have any news to report, my lord."), ("Gloucester", "Whats that paper you were reading?"), ("Edmund", "Its nothing, my lord."), ("Gloucester", "No? Then why did you have to stick it in your pocket in such a hurry? If it were nothing, you wouldnt need to hide it. Lets see it. Come on, if its nothing, I wont need glasses to read it."), ("Edmund", "Please, sir, I beg you. Its a letter from my brother that I havent finished reading yet. But judging from the bit I have read, its not fit for you to see."), ("Gloucester", "Give me that letter, sir."), ("Edmund", "Now Ill offend you whether I give it to you or not. The problem is in what the letter says, as far as I can tell."), ("Gloucester", "(taking the letter) Lets see, lets see."), ("Edmund", "I hope for my brothers sake that he just wrote it to test my honor."), ("Gloucester", "(reads) The custom of respecting the elderly makes it hardfor the young and healthy to live well, and keeps us withoutour inheritance until we are so old we cant enjoyour happiness anyway. The power of the elderly is starting to feellike a silly and foolish slavery to me, and they only enjoy thatpower because we let them have it. Come talk to me about this. If our father were dead youd receive half of his revenue forever, and youd have my undying love, Edgar. Hmm, whats this, a conspiracy? If our father were dead, youd receive half of his revenue forevermy son Edgar? How did he bring himself to write such a thing? How could he have even entertained these thoughts in his heart? How did you get this letter? Who delivered it?"), ("Edmund", "Nobody delivered it, my lord. Thats whats clever about it. It was tossed into the window of my room."), ("Gloucester", "Youre sure the handwriting is your brothers?"), ("Edmund", "If hed written nice things, Id swear yes right away. But as it stands, I wish I could believe it wasnt."), ("Gloucester", "But it is his handwriting?"), ("Edmund", "Its his handwriting, my lord, but I hope he didnt mean what he wrote."), ("Gloucester", "Has he ever tested out these ideas on you before?"), ("Edmund", "Never, my lord. But Ive often heard him argue that when sons are at their prime and their fathers are declining, the sons should be their fathers' guardians and manage their fathers' money."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, what a villain! Thats just what he said in the letter. Evil villain! Monstrous, hateful, bestial villain! Worse than a beast! Go look for him. Ill arrest him. Horrid villain! Where is he?"), ("Edmund", "Im not sure, my lord. But it may be a good idea to restrain your rage until you find out exactly what he meant. If you go after him and then find out that you made a mistake, it would damage your reputation and greatly undermine his loyalty to you. Ill bet my life that he only wrote this letter to gauge my love for you, and for no other reason."), ("Gloucester", "Do you think so?"), ("Edmund", "If you agree, Ill hide you somewhere where you can eavesdrop on us talking about it, and hear how he feels with your own ears. You wont have to wait longer than until tonight."), ("Gloucester", "He cant possibly be such a monster"), ("Edmund", "And Im sure he isnt."), ("Gloucester", "toward his own father who loves him so completely. Oh, God! Edmund, go find him. Gain his confidence for me, please. Manage him however you think best. Id give up my rank and fortune to be free from my doubts."), ("Edmund", "Ill find him right away, sir, and carry out the business as well as I can. Then Ill let you know whats happening."), ("Gloucester", "These recent eclipses of the sun and moon dont bode well for us. Though science can explain them away, disasters still come after eclipses. Love cools off, friendships break up, and brothers become enemies. Riots break out, civil war erupts, kings are betrayed, and the bond between father and son snaps. This wicked son of mine confirms the prediction son against father. The king acts unnaturallyfather against child. Weve seen the best our age has to offer. Conspiracies, fakery, betrayal, and disorder are all thats left until we die. Find out what this villainous Edgar is thinking, Edmund. You wont lose any respect. Just do it carefully. And to think that the noble and loyal Kent has been banished, for the crime of telling the truth! Its strange, strange."), ("Edmund", "This is a classic example of the idiocy of the world: when were down and outoften because of our own excesses we put all the blame on the sun, the moon, and the stars, as if they forced us to be bad, or the heavens compelled us to be villainous or stupid. As if we become thieves and traitors according to astrological signs or obey planetary influences to become drunks, liars, and adulterers! As if some universal power pushed us into evil deeds! What a sneaky trick it is for lustful mankind to blame our horniness on some star! My father and mother coupled when the demonic moon was descending, and I was born under the Big Dipper, so its inevitable that Im rude and oversexed. Christ! I would have been what I am even if the most virginal star in the heavens had twinkled at my conception. Edgar and, speak of the devil, here he comes, right on cue. Ive got to play the role and sigh like a poor beggar. Oh, these eclipses predict such disorder. Fa, sol, la, mi."), ("Edgar", "Hello, brother Edmund. What are you thinking about so seriously?"), ("Edmund", "I was thinking about what an astrologer predicted the other day. He wrote about what these eclipses mean."), ("Edgar", "Are you spending your valuable time on that?"), ("Edmund", "Oh, I assure you the things he writes about are wretched things like divisions between parents and children, death, famine, broken friendships, political rebellion, treason against the king and noblemen, exiled friends, dissolved armies, adultery, and I dont know what else."), ("Edgar", "How long have you believed in astrology?"), ("Edmund", "Come on. When was the last time you saw my father?"), ("Edgar", "Why, last night."), ("Edmund", "Did you speak to him?"), ("Edgar", "Yes, we talked for a couple of hours."), ("Edmund", "Did you leave on good terms? Did he express any dissatisfaction with you, either in his words or his face?"), ("Edgar", "No, none at all."), ("Edmund", "Try to remember how you might have offended him, and try to avoid spending time with him until his anger has cooled a little. Right now hes so angry that even if he harmed you physically, hed still be raging."), ("Edgar", "Some villain has told lies about me."), ("Edmund", "Thats what Im afraid of. I suggest you lay low until his rage cools a little. In the meantime, come home with me, and when the time is right Ill take you to talk to him. Please go. Heres my key. If you go outside, arm yourself."), ("Edgar", "Arm myself?"), ("Edmund", "Brother, Im giving you good advice. Arm yourself. Id be a liar if I told you nobody wanted to hurt you. Ive told you what Ive seen and heard, but Ive toned it down a lot. Ive spared you you the full extent of the horror that threatens you. Now please go."), ("Edgar", "Will I hear from you soon?"), ("Edmund", "Ill help you through this business. A gullible father and a brother whos so innocent that he cant suspect anyone else of wanting to hurt himthese are the two fools I need for my plan to work. I know exactly how to proceed. If I cant have an estate by birthright, then Ill get it by being clever. Any trick that works is good for me."), ("Goneril", "Did my father hit one of my attendants for scolding his fool?"), ("Oswald", "Yes, ma'am."), ("Goneril", "He constantly offends me. Every hour he comes out with some horrible new offense that puts us all on edge. I wont stand for it. His knights are getting out of control, and he himself reprimands us about every little detail. When he comes back from hunting, Im not going to speak to him. Tell him Im sick. And if youre not as attentive in serving him as you used to be, thatll be good. Ill take responsibility for it."), ("Oswald", "Hes coming, ma'am. I hear him."), ("Goneril", "Be as lazy and neglectful as you like around himyou and the other servants. I want it to become an issue. If he doesnt like it, he can go live with my sister. I know she feels the same way about him that I do, and shell stand her ground. That useless old man still thinks he can wield all the powers hes given away. I swear, old fools become like babies again. You cant just flatter them; you also have to discipline them when you see that theyre misguided. Remember what Ive told you."), ("Oswald", "Very well, ma'am."), ("Goneril", "And make sure the servants are less friendly to his knights. Dont worry about the consequences. Tell your men as much. I want this to provoke confrontations, so I can give him a piece of my mind. Ill write to my sister and tell her my plans. Now go, set up for dinner."), ("Kent", "If I can disguise my voice as well as my appearance, then Ill be able to carry out my plan perfectly. I was banished, but hopefully I can serve the very king who condemned me. I love my master, and hell find me very hard-working."), ("Lear", "Dont make me wait for dinner even a moment. Get it ready immediately. (to KENT) Well now, who are you?"), ("Kent", "A man, sir."), ("Lear", "Whats your profession? What do you want from me?"), ("Kent", "IKent interprets your profession as your declaration rather than your job. I profess that Im as good as I seemIll faithfully serve a master who trusts me, love those who are honest, talk with those who are wise and dont talk too much. Im God-fearing, I fight if I must, and I dont eat fish."), ("Lear", "But who are you?"), ("Kent", "An honest guy whos as poor as the king."), ("Lear", "If youre as poor a subject as he is a king, you definitely are poor. What do you want?"), ("Kent", "To work as a servant."), ("Lear", "Who do you want to work for?"), ("Kent", "You."), ("Lear", "Do you know me?"), ("Kent", "No, sir, but theres something about your face that makes me want to serve you."), ("Lear", "What do you see in my face?"), ("Kent", "Authority."), ("Lear", "What work can you do?"), ("Kent", "I can be discreet in honorable matters, ride a horse, run, tell a good story badly, and deliver a plain message bluntly. Im good at everything that ordinary men can do. The best thing about me is that Im hardworking."), ("Lear", "How old are you?"), ("Kent", "Not young enough to fall in love with a woman because she sings well, but not old enough to dote on a woman for any reason. Im forty-eight."), ("Lear", "Follow me. Youll work for me. If I still like you after dinner, I wont send you away yet. Hey, dinnertime! Dinner! Wheres my fool? Go call my fool and have him come here. You, sir, wheres my daughter?"), ("Oswald", "I beg your pardon, sir"), ("Lear", "What did that guy say? Call the numbskull back in here. Wheres my fool? Youd think everyone was asleep. So whats going on? Wheres that dog?"), ("First knight", "He says your daughters not feeling well, my lord."), ("Lear", "Why didnt the jerk come back to me when I called him?"), ("First knight", "Sir, he told me quite bluntly that he didnt feel like it."), ("Lear", "Didnt feel like it?"), ("First knight", "My lord, I dont know whats going on, but it seems to me that your highness isnt being treated as politely as before. The servants, the duke, and your daughter all seem to be treating you less kindly."), ("Lear", "Huh! Do you really mean that?"), ("First knight", "Please forgive me if Im mistaken, my lordbut I cant keep quiet when I think youre being insulted."), ("Lear", "No, youre just reminding me of something Ive also noticed. Ive felt neglected recently, but I decided that it was more likely that I was being hypersensitive than that they were intentionally unkind. Ill look into it further. But wheres my fool? I havent seen him for two days."), ("First knight", "Ever since Cordelia left for France, sir, the fool has been depressed."), ("Lear", "Lets not talk about it. Ive noticed it myself. Go and tell my daughter I want to speak with her. And you, go call my fool. You there, sir, come here please. Who am I, sir?"), ("Oswald", "The father of the lady of the house, sir."), ("Lear", "The father of the lady of the house? You scoundrel! You lowlife son-of-a-bitch! You dog, you peasant!"), ("Oswald", "Im sorry, sir, but Im not any of those things."), ("Lear", "Are you making faces at me, you scoundrel? (he hits OSWALD)"), ("Oswald", "I wont be hit, my lord."), ("Kent", "(tripping OSWALD) Or tripped, you lowlife footballFootball (soccer) was considered a lower-class game.football player?"), ("Lear", "(to KENT) Thank you, sir. You serve me well, and Ill love you for it."), ("Kent", "(to OSWALD) Come on, sir, get up and get out of here! Ill teach you to respect your betters. If you want me to trip you again, then stick around. If not, get going. Go on. Do you know whats good for you? There you go."), ("Lear", "Now, my friendly servant, thank you. (giving KENT money) Heres a token of my gratitude."), ("Fool", "Wait, let me hire him too. Heres my fools cap, a token of my gratitude. (he offers KENT his cap)"), ("Lear", "Well hello, my good boy. How are you doing?"), ("Fool", "(to KENT) Guy, youd better take my cap."), ("Lear", "Why, Fool?"), ("Fool", "Why? For standing up for this unpopular king. No, if you cant adjust to political changes, youll suffer for it. There, take my fools cap. This guy here has banished two of his daughters and blessed the third one without intending to. If you work for him, youre a fool and should wear a fools cap. So hows it going, uncle? I wish I had two fools caps and two daughters."), ("Lear", "Why, my boy?"), ("Fool", "If I gave them all I own, Id have two fools caps for myself. Heres mine. Ask your daughters for another one."), ("Lear", "Watch out, boyremember I can whip you."), ("Fool", "I get whipped like a dog for telling the truth, while Lady Bitch gets to stand around the fire and stink the place up with her false words."), ("Lear", "A constant pain to me!"), ("Fool", "Ill recite something for you, guy."), ("Lear", "Yes, do that."), ("Fool", "Listen up, uncle. Have more than you show, Speak less than you know, Lend less than you owe. Ride more than you walk, Dont believe everything you hear, Dont bet everything on one throw of the dice, Leave behind your booze and your whore, And stay indoors, And youll end up with more Than two tens to a twenty."), ("Kent", "That makes no sense, Fool. Its nothing."), ("Fool", "In that case its like the words of an unpaid lawyer. You paid me nothing for it. Cant you make any use of nothing, uncle?"), ("Lear", "Why, no, boy. Nothing can be made out of nothing."), ("Fool", "(to KENT) Please tell him that his income is nothing, now that hes given his lands away. He wont believe a fool."), ("Lear", "Youre a bitter fool."), ("Fool", "Do you know the difference, my boy, between a bitter fool and a sweet one?"), ("Lear", "No, son. Tell me."), ("Fool", "Bring here The gentleman who advised you To give away your land. You can stand in his place. The sweet and bitter fool Will appear right away. The sweet fool in a fools costumethats me. The bitter one is the other onethats you. LEAR"), ("Lear", "Are you calling me a fool, boy?"), ("Fool", "Well, youve given away all your other rightful titles. The title of fool is the only one left. Kent This isnt entirely a joke, your highness."), ("Fool", "No. I wish I could be a complete jokerbut so many lords and important men are also playing fools that I cant have a monopoly on it. Ladies tootheyre always snatching away my role as the biggest fool. Uncle, give me an egg, and Ill give you two crowns."), ("Lear", "Which two crowns would those be?"), ("Fool", "Well, when I cut the egg in half and eat the whites, the yolk will be in two parts like two golden crowns. When you cut your own crown and kingdom in half and gave away both parts, you were as foolish as the old man in the old story who carries his donkey on his back instead of letting the donkey carry him. You didnt have much brains inside the bald crown of your head when you gave away the gold crown of your kingdom. If Im telling the truth like a fool in saying all this, whip the first person who thinks I sound foolish. (he sings) Fools have had a hard time this year. Theyve been displaced by wise men whove grown foolish. These men no longer know how to use their brains, And they dont know how to behave except by foolishly imitating others."), ("Lear", "When did you become so fond of singing, boy?"), ("Fool", "Ive been singing ever since you made your daughters into your mothers by giving them all your power. Thats when you gave them the spanking paddle and pulled your pants down, (he sings) Then your daughters wept for joy, And I sang in sadness, Seeing such a king become A child and a fool. Please, uncle, hire a teacher who can teach your fool to lie. I want to learn how to lie."), ("Lear", "If you lie, boy, well have you whipped."), ("Fool", "Im amazed how similar you and your daughters are. They want to whip me for telling the truth, you want to whip me for lying, and sometimes Im even whipped for keeping quiet. Id rather be anything besides a fool. And yet I wouldnt want to be you, uncle. When you gave away pieces of your kingdom, its as if you cut off pieces on both sides of your brain and left nothing in the middle. Here comes the owner of one piece."), ("Lear", "Whats going on, daughter? Why are you frowning like that? I think youve been frowning too much recently."), ("Fool", "(to LEAR) You were better off when you didnt have to care whether she frowned or not. Now youre a big zero, with no digit in front of it to give it value. Im better than you areIm a fool and youre nothing. (to GONERIL) Yes, I promise Ill shut up. Thats what youre telling me with that expression on your face, even though you dont say anything. Mum, mum, The man who gives away his crust and his crumbs Will discover that he needs some crumbs back. (pointing at LEAR) That guy is an empty pea pod."), ("Goneril", "(to LEAR) Its not just your fool here who can say whatever he wants, but your whole obnoxious entourage keeps whining and arguing, bursting out in intolerably vicious riots. Sir, I thought you could put an end to all this if I told you about it. But judging by what youve said and done recently, Im worried that you dont mind this chaos, and even approve of it. If thats true, its shameful. I realize that restraining your knights will damage your reputation with themand under ordinary circumstances it would be unfortunate to have them see you as an ogre. However, this is an extreme situation, and its more important to control it than to worry about how youll look."), ("Fool", "You know, uncle, A sparrow once raised a cuckoo in its nest Until the cuckoo grew up and bit the sparrows head off. So the candle went out and now were all in the dark."), ("Lear", "Are you my daughter?"), ("Goneril", "Come on, sir. I know youre very wise, and I wish you would use some of that wisdom to snap out of this mood youve been in lately and be your true self again."), ("Fool", "Even an idiot knows when the normal order has been inverted and the cart is pulling the horse. Whoo-hoo, honey, I love you!"), ("Lear", "Does anyone here know who I am? Im not Lear. Does Lear walk and talk like this? Where are his eyes? Either his mind is losing its grip or his judgment is screwy. Hey, am I awake? I dont think so. Who can tell me who I am?"), ("Fool", "Youre Lears shadow."), ("Lear", "Id like to find out who I am, since the obvious signs around me wrongly indicate that Ive got daughters."), ("Fool", "Daughters who can make you obey them."), ("Lear", "(to GONERIL) Whats your name, my dear lady?"), ("Goneril", "This fake astonishment of yours is just like your other pranks. Im asking you to understand my point of view. Since youre old and respected, you should be wise. But youre keeping a hundred knights here who are so disorderly, vulgar, and obnoxious that our noble court is starting to look like a noisy cheap hotel. Theyre such oversexed gluttons that I feel like were living in a pub or a whorehouse rather than a respectable palace. Its shameful, and we have to make some changes right away. Please, as a favor to meand if you dont do it for me, Ill do it myselfreduce the number of your knights a little. Keep the ones who are older, like you, and who act their age."), ("Lear", "Hell and damnation! Saddle up my horses. Call my knights together. I wont bother you any more, you monstrous bastard. Youre not really my daughter, but I still have one daughter left."), ("Goneril", "You hit my servants, and your disorderly mob of knights treat their superiors like servants."), ("Lear", "Youll be sorry later, but itll be too late. (to ALBANY) Oh, sir, are you here now? You decided to come? Answer me, sir. (to attendants) Get my horses ready. Ingratitude is always hideous, but an ungrateful child is uglier than a sea monster!"), ("Albany", "Please, sir, be patient."), ("Lear", "(to GONERIL) You disgusting vulture, youre a liar! My knights are the finest men who can attend a king, and they meticulously uphold their reputation. Oh, how ugly did Cordelias small flaw appear! And now Cordelias small flaw has bent me completely out of shape and sucked all the love out of my heart. Oh, Lear, Lear, Lear! (he hits himself on the head) Let me beat this portal that let my good sense out and my foolishness in! Go, go, people."), ("Albany", "My lord, I have no idea whats upset you, but whatever it is, I had nothing to do with it."), ("Lear", "That may be true, my lord. Ah, dear Nature, my goddess, listen to me! Change your plans if you ever intended for this woman to have children. Make her sterile and dry up her womb so that no baby will ever come out of her body and honor her. If she must give birth, make her child a bad seed who will torment her, give her a forehead wrinkled with worry, make her cry until her cheeks are sunken. Let it be a wicked child who mocks the mother who cares for it. Make my daughter feelmake her feel how an ungrateful child hurts worse than a snakebite. Now lets leave. Go!"), ("Albany", "Dear gods in heaven, whats the reason for this?"), ("Goneril", "Dont even bother to ask the reasons. Just let him rant and rave. Hes senile."), ("Lear", "What, fifty of my knights dismissed all at once? In only two weeks?"), ("Albany", "What are you talking about, sir?"), ("Lear", "Ill tell you. (to GONERIL) Im ashamed that you have the power to upset me like this, as though youre worth the tears youre making me shed. Damn you! May you feel every pain a fathers curse can bring! If I cry again because of you, Ill rip my eyes out of their sockets and throw them and their wet tears down to moisten the earth. Has it come to this? Then so be it. I have one more daughter who Im sure is kind. When she hears what youve done to me, shell tear up your wolflike face with her fingernails. And then youll see that despite what you thought, Ill be as powerful as I was before. Youll see, I promise you."), ("Goneril", "Did you hear that?"), ("Albany", "Goneril, you know how much I love you, but still I have to say"), ("Goneril", "Shush, please. Come, sir, no more. Oswald, come here! (to FOOL) And you, sir, youre more of a rascal than a fool. Go follow your master."), ("Fool", "Uncle Lear, uncle Lear, wait. Take your fool with you. A fox youve trapped And such a daughter Should both be slaughtered, If my fools cap is worth a rope to bind them. So the fool follows you."), ("Goneril", "My father cant think straighta hundred knights! Just imagine the risk we run in letting him keep a hundred knights around! He could use them to strong-arm us into bowing to every little whim of his, and keep us at his mercy. Oswald, where are you?"), ("Albany", "You may be exaggerating the risks."), ("Goneril", "Thats better than exaggerating our trust. Its always better to get rid of what youre scared of than to be afraid. I know how his mind works. Ive written to my sister telling her everything hes said. If she welcomes him and his hundred knights after Ive shown how inappropriately hes behaved"), ("Oswald", "Here, ma'am."), ("Goneril", "Well, Oswald? Have you written that letter to my sister yet?"), ("Oswald", "Yes, ma'am."), ("Goneril", "Take some men and horses and go to her. Tell her everything that worries me. Add details of your own to back up what Im saying. Now go, and hurry back. No, no, my husband, Im not angry that you urge me to deal more gently with my father. But youre showing a lack of wisdom that that is much more noticeable than your tenderness toward him."), ("Albany", "Maybe you know more than I do. But people often screw things up trying to make them better."), ("Goneril", "No, not at all"), ("Albany", "All right, all right. Time will tell."), ("Lear", "(to KENT, giving him letters) Go ahead of us and deliver these letters to the Earl of Gloucester. Answer my daughters questions about the letter, but dont tell her anything else you know. If youre not quick enough, Ill get there before you."), ("Kent", "I wont sleep until Ive delivered your letter, my lord."), ("Fool", "If a mans brain were in his feet, wouldnt it be susceptible to frostbite?"), ("Lear", "Yes, boy."), ("Fool", "In that case, cheer up. Your brains wont need slippers to protect them from frostbite, since your brains arent in your feetif they were you wouldnt take this useless journey to see Regan."), ("Lear", "Ha, ha, ha!"), ("Fool", "Your other daughter Regan will treat you kindly, youll see. Even though shes as similar to Goneril as one crabapple is like another, still I know what I know."), ("Lear", "And what do you know, boy?"), ("Fool", "I know that Regan will taste just like Gonerilboth of them sour crabapples. Do you know why the nose is in the middle of a persons face?"), ("Lear", "No."), ("Fool", "Why, to keep the eyes on the sides, so that you can see anything that you cant sniff out."), ("Lear", "I was wrong to her"), ("Fool", "Do you know how an oyster makes its shell?"), ("Lear", "No."), ("Fool", "Me neither. But I know why a snail carries its house on its back."), ("Lear", "Why?"), ("Fool", "So that he always has a roof over his head. He cant give his house away to his daughters, leaving himself without shelter."), ("Lear", "I want to forget what I am. Such a kind father! Are my horses ready?"), ("Fool", "Your attendant asses are getting the horses ready. Theres a nice reason why the constellation Pleiades has only seven stars in it."), ("Lear", "Because it doesnt have eight?"), ("Fool", "Thats right. Youd make a good fool."), ("Lear", "I could take back my crown by forceWhat outrageous ingratitude!"), ("Fool", "If you were my fool, uncle, Id have you beaten for getting old before your time."), ("Lear", "Hows that?"), ("Fool", "Youre not supposed to get old until youre wise."), ("Lear", "Oh, dear God, dont let me go mad! Keep me balanced and sane. I dont want to go mad. So, are the horses ready?"), ("Gentleman", "Theyre ready, my lord."), ("Lear", "Come on, boy."), ("Fool", "(speaking to the audience) Any girl who laughs because Im going with the king is too foolish to remain a virgin very long."), ("Edmund", "Hello, Curan."), ("Curan", "Hello, sir. I just saw your father the Lord Gloucester and notified him that the Duke of Cornwall and his wife Regan will stay with him here tonight."), ("Edmund", "Why is that?"), ("Curan", "I dont know. Have you heard the latest news? I mean the whispered rumors, since thats all they are at this point."), ("Edmund", "No, I havent. Whats going on?"), ("Curan", "You havent heard of the war brewing between the Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?"), ("Edmund", "Not a word."), ("Curan", "You may hear about it soon. Goodbye, sir."), ("Edmund", "The duke will be here tonight? All the betterin fact its the best that could happen. His arrival fits perfectly into my plan. My fathers ready to arrest my brother, and I have one risky thing to do. Fast work and a little luck are all I need. Brother, could I have a word with you? Come down, brother. Father is on the lookout. Get out of here quickly! It has leaked out that youre hiding here. If you leave now, you can take advantage of the darkness and sneak away. You havent said anything against the Duke of Cornwall, have you? Hes rushing on his way here right now, and Regans with him. Have you said anything against Cornwall or Albany? Think about it."), ("Edgar", "Im sure of it. I havent said a word."), ("Edmund", "I hear my father coming. Forgive me. I have to pretend to threaten you with my sword. Draw your sword too, as if youre defending yourself. Be convincing. (loudly) Give up! Go see my father. Bring in some light!(speaking so that only EDGAR can hear) Run, brother. (loudly) Torches, bring in the torches! (speaking so that only EDGAR can hear) Goodbye, then. If I had some blood on me it would look like Id fought more fiercely. (he cuts his own arm) Ive seen drunk men do worse than this just fooling around. Father, father! Stop, stop! Wont anyone help me?"), ("Gloucester", "Edmund, wheres your wicked brother?"), ("Edmund", "He was standing here in the dark with his sword pointing at me. He was mumbling some black magic spells, appealing to the moon to help him in his evil plans"), ("Gloucester", "But where is he?"), ("Edmund", "Look, sir, Im bleeding."), ("Gloucester", "Where is the villain, Edmund?"), ("Edmund", "He ran out that way, sir, when he couldnt"), ("Gloucester", "Follow him, now! Go. When he couldnt what?"), ("Edmund", "When he couldnt persuade me to kill you. I told him that the gods hate men who kill their fathers and unleash all their thunder on them, and that the bond between father and child was sacred. In short, when I told him how firmly opposed I was to his hideous plan, he pulled out his sword and lunged at my defenseless body, cutting my arm. Bolstered by righteousness, I prepared to fight, and when he saw my excitementor perhaps because my shouting scared himhe ran away suddenly."), ("Gloucester", "Let him run far away. If he stays in this country hell be found. And if hes caught, hell be executed. The Duke of Cornwall, my master and patron, is arriving tonight. On his authority Ill proclaim that whoever finds Edgar and helps bring the murderous coward to justice will be rewarded. Whoever helps Edgar hide will die."), ("Edmund", "After I urged him not to kill you, I saw that he was still determined to do it. Enraged, I threatened to expose him. He answered, You penniless bastard! Do you really think that if it came down to my word against yours, anyone would believe you? No. Id deny whatever evidence you had against meeven if it were in my own handwritingand turn it all into evidence against you and your plans for treachery. And you must think people are stupid if you believe they wouldnt realize all the motives you have for trying to kill me."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, how monstrously evil! He said he would deny that he wrote his letter? He cannot truly be my son. Listen. The dukes trumpets. I dont know why hes come here. Ill forbid all ships from leaving our harbors. The villain wont escape. The duke will agree with me on that. And Ill send his picture everywhere so that the whole kingdom will know what he looks like. And as for you, my loyal and true son, Ill find some way to make you my heir."), ("Cornwall", "How are you, my friend? Ever since I arrived here, just now, Ive been hearing strange rumors."), ("Regan", "If theyre true, no punishment is harsh enough for the criminal. How are you, my lord?"), ("Gloucester", "Oh, madam, my old heart is broken, broken."), ("Regan", "Did my fathers godson try to kill you? The one whom my father named, your son Edgar?"), ("Gloucester", "Oh, my lady, Im ashamed to admit it."), ("Regan", "Wasnt he friends with all those brawling knights who serve my father?"), ("Gloucester", "I dont know, madam. Oh, its too terrible."), ("Edmund", "To answer your question, ma'amyes, he was friendly with those knights."), ("Regan", "Then its no surprise they had a bad influence on him. They probably put him up to killing old man Gloucester to get his money. Tonight I received a letter from my sister telling me all about themand warning me not be at home in case they come to stay at my house."), ("Cornwall", "And I wont be there either. Edmund, Im told youve acted like a true son to your father."), ("Edmund", "I just did my duty, sir."), ("Gloucester", "He exposed Edgars murderous plot, and was wounded, as you see there, when trying to apprehend him."), ("Cornwall", "Are your men searching for him?"), ("Gloucester", "Yes, my lord."), ("Cornwall", "If hes caught, hell never make trouble for anyone again. Feel free to use my authority however you wish in order to apprehend him. As for you, Edmund, youve been so loyal and virtuous throughout this whole business. Id like you to work for me. I need people as trustworthy as you."), ("Edmund", "Ill always be loyal to you, sir."), ("Gloucester", "(to cornwall) Thank you, my lord, for your kindness to Edmund."), ("Cornwall", "You dont know why we came to visit you"), ("Regan", "Yes, and so unexpectedly, at night. There are some important matters we need your advice on, Gloucester. My father and my sister have both recently written to me about arguments between them. I realized it would be inconvenient to answer them from home, especially since the king may be on his way there. Their messengers are ready, waiting to deliver our response in these matters. So please, old friend, give us some good advice. We need it desperately and immediately."), ("Gloucester", "Im at your service, madam. Both of you are very welcome here."), ("Oswald", "Good morning to you, friend. Do you work in this house?"), ("Kent", "Yes, I do."), ("Oswald", "Where should we stable our horses?"), ("Kent", "In the mud."), ("Oswald", "Please, sir, be kind to me and tell me."), ("Kent", "I wont be kind to you."), ("Oswald", "In that case, I dont much care for you either."), ("Kent", "If I could get my hands on you, Id make you care."), ("Oswald", "Why are you talking to me like this? I dont even know you."), ("Kent", "Ah, but I know you."), ("Oswald", "Who am I then?"), ("Kent", "Youre a lowlife, a rascal who eats leftover scraps. Youre an ignoble, arrogant, shallow, vulgar, pretentious, conceited, filthy third-rate servant who thinks hes something special. Youre a cowardly lawyer-loving bastard; a vain, brown-nosing, prissy scoundrel whod pimp himself out to advance his career; a bag lady. Youre nothing but a lowlife, a beggar, a coward, and a pimp, the son and heir of a mutt bitch. Ill beat you until you whine and cry if you deny the least bit of this."), ("Oswald", "What an ogre you are to slander someone you dont know, and who doesnt know you!"), ("Kent", "What a shameless jerk you are to pretend you dont know me! It was just two days ago that I tripped you and beat you up in front of the king. Draw your sword, scoundrel. It may be nighttime, but theres enough moonlight to fight by. Ill make ground beef out of you. (he draws his sword) Draw, you affected, preening son of a bitch! Draw your sword!"), ("Oswald", "Get away from me! Ive got nothing to do with you."), ("Kent", "Draw your sword, you jerk! You come here with letters against the king, and you take his conceited daughters side against his royal highness. Draw your sword, scoundrel, or Ill slice your thighs like flank steak. Draw your sword! Come on!"), ("Oswald", "Help! Murderer! Help!"), ("Kent", "Fight, peasant. Dont run away, scoundrel. Stand and fight, you overdressed servant, fight! (he hits OSWALD)"), ("Oswald", "Help! Murder, murder!"), ("Edmund", "Whats going on here? Get away from each other."), ("Kent", "(to EDMUND) Well, kid, lets see you fight. Come on, Ill show you how."), ("Gloucester", "You have weapons? Whats going on here?"), ("Cornwall", "Stop it, I order you. The next person to strike again dies. Whats going on here?"), ("Regan", "These are the messengers from my sister and the king."), ("Cornwall", "What are you fighting about? Tell me."), ("Oswald", "Im out of breath, sir."), ("Kent", "No wonder, with all your exertions, you cowardly rascal. Youre not worth being called a man. The only thing manly about you are your clothes. A tailor made you."), ("Cornwall", "Thats an odd thing to say. How can a tailor make a person?"), ("Kent", "Definitely a tailor, sir. A sculptor or a painter couldnt have screwed him up as bad as that, even as an apprentice."), ("Cornwall", "But tell me what youre fighting about."), ("Oswald", "This old ruffian here, whom I didnt kill because hes so old"), ("Kent", "You useless bastardyoure like the letter z, a totally unnecessary addition to the alphabet. My lord, please let me grind this lumpy lowlife into a powder and use it to plaster up the bathroom walls. You didnt kill me because Im so old, you fawning dog?"), ("Cornwall", "Calm down. Dont you have any manners, you savage?"), ("Kent", "Yes, sir, but not when Im enraged."), ("Cornwall", "Why are you enraged?"), ("Kent", "Im angry that a dishonorable lowlife like this wears a sword like a gentleman. Smiling swindlers such as he undo the sacred bonds that unite people together, and only encourage the unreasonable passions of their masters. They foster both rage and apathy. They say Yes and No, turning their noses whichever way the wind blows without taking a firm stance on anything. They blindly follow their masters' impulses, like dogs. Damn your ugly stinking face! Are you laughing at what I say, as if I were a fool? If I had my way with you right now, Id send you to back to where you came from."), ("Cornwall", "Are you insane, old man?"), ("Gloucester", "(to KENT) What did you start quarreling over? Just tell us."), ("Kent", "I couldnt hate that jerk over there any more than I do."), ("Cornwall", "Why are you calling him a jerk? What did he do to you?"), ("Kent", "I dont like his face."), ("Cornwall", "But maybe you dont like mine, or his, or hers either."), ("Kent", "Im used to telling the truth, sir, and I have to say that Ive seen better faces than those I see here."), ("Cornwall", "This is a guy whos been praised for his honest bluntness, and who now insolently pretends to be plainspoken and twists the natural meanings of words. No flattery for him, no sir! Hes honest, hes got to speak the truth. If people take what he says, fine. If not, hes got truth on his side! I know his type. Hes sneaky behind all his so-called bluntness, sneakier than twenty brown-nosing bootlickers who only tell you what you want to hear."), ("Kent", "Dearest, kindest, most honorable sir, may I say, with your esteemed approval, which is lit up by the illuminating radiance of the sun-god Phoebus, that"), ("Cornwall", "What do you mean by that?"), ("Kent", "I tried to stop speaking plainly, since you dislike plain speech so much. Sir, I know Im not a flatterer. The guy who tricked you with plain language was just a plain crookwhich Im not, however much I may displease you by not being one."), ("Cornwall", "(to OSWALD) How did you offend him?"), ("Oswald", "I never offended him at all. Recently, the king hit me because of a misunderstanding. This man took sides with the king and tripped me. When I was down on the ground he insulted me, and then started acting tough to seem courageous in front of the king. The king praised him, even though I had never offered any resistance at all. Now he pulled out his sword on me again, still riled up from our first encounter."), ("Kent", "These cowards manage to make fools of brave men."), ("Cornwall", "Bring out the stocksThe stocks consisted of a wooden frame in which you could lock a criminals ankles so that he or she couldnt move.stocks! Well teach you, you stubborn old bastard, you arrogant show-off."), ("Kent", "Sir, Im too old to be taught anything. Dont put me in the stocks. I serve the king, who sent me here. If you put me in the stocks youll insult him both as a king and as a man."), ("Cornwall", "Bring out the stocks! I swear on my life and honor, hell sit here in the stocks until noon."), ("Regan", "Only until noon, my lord? No, the whole day, and all night too."), ("Kent", "Ma'am, you wouldnt treat me like this if I were your fathers dog."), ("Regan", "But since youre his scoundrel servant, I will."), ("Cornwall", "This guy is exactly the kind of person your sister warned us about. Come on, bring in the stocks, now!"), ("Gloucester", "I beg you not to do this, my lord. Hes done wrong, and his master the king will punish him for it. But the kind of punishment you propose is more suited to petty shoplifters than to royal attendants. The king will be offended to find out that his messenger is so badly treated."), ("Cornwall", "Ill take responsibility for that."), ("Regan", "My sister would be much more offended to have her trusted messenger abused and assaulted just for carrying out her orders. Put his legs in the stocks."), ("Cornwall", "(to GLOUCESTER) Lets go, my lord."), ("Gloucester", "Im sorry, my friend. The duke always gets it his way, and everyone knows you cant budge him once hes made up his mind. Ill try talking to him again."), ("Kent", "Please dont, sir. Ive been up for a long time and have done a lot of traveling recently. This punishment will be a good chance to catch up on my sleep. The rest of the time Ill whistle to entertain myself. Even good men have bad luck. Have a good morning."), ("Gloucester", "Its wrong for the duke to do this. The king will be angry with him."), ("Kent", "Oh, good King Lear, youre proving that, just as they say, everything goes from good to bad. (he takes out a letter) Rise and shine, sun, so I can read this letter. Only those who are truly miserable see miracles. I know this letter is from Cordelia, who knows that Im serving the king in disguise. (looking at the letter) She says that she will have time, now that shes away from the monstrous conditions here, to find a way to fix things. Im exhausted. Ive been awake too long. This fatigue gives me an excuse to shut my eyes so I cant see myself humiliated in the stocks. Good night, Lady Luck. Smile and spin your wheel of fortune again. (he sleeps)"), ("Edgar", "I heard myself declared an outlaw and escaped capture by hiding in the trunk of a hollow tree. Every town and port is crawling with henchmen on the lookout, waiting to capture me. But Ill survive while I can. Ive decided to disguise myself as the lowliest and rattiest beggar that mankind has ever seen. Ill smear my face with filth, put on a loincloth, make my hair matted and tangled, and face the bad weather wearing almost nothing. Ive seen beggars out of insane asylums who stick pins and nails into their numb arms. They pray or roar lunatic curses, horrifying farmers and villagers into giving them alms. Poor crazy Tom! they call themselves. Well, at least thats something. As Edgar, Im nothing at all."), ("Lear", "Its strange that Regan and her husband left their house without sending back my messenger."), ("Gentleman", "According to what I heard, they had no travel plans as of last night."), ("Kent", "(to LEAR) Hail, noble master!"), ("Lear", "Whats this? Are you sitting around in this humiliation to amuse yourself?"), ("Kent", "No, my lord."), ("Fool", "Ha, ha! Thats a nasty garter belt. You tie up horses by their heads, dogs and bears by their necks, monkeys by their waists, and humans by their legs. When a persons prone to wanderlust, he has to wear wooden socks, like a chastity belt around his ankles."), ("Lear", "(to KENT) Who could have misunderstood your assigment so completely as to lock you up like this?"), ("Kent", "Your daughter and son-in-law."), ("Lear", "No."), ("Kent", "Yes."), ("Lear", "Im telling you No."), ("Kent", "And Im telling you Yes."), ("Lear", "No, no, they wouldnt."), ("Kent", "Yes, they have."), ("Lear", "By the god Jupiter above, I swear No."), ("Kent", "By Jupiters wife Juno, I swear Yes."), ("Lear", "They wouldnt dare. They couldnt, they wouldnt. Its worse than murder to humiliate a kings messenger like this. Tell me as quickly and clearly as you can what you did to deserve this punishment, or what made them think they could inflict it on you."), ("Kent", "My lord, when I arrived at their home I gave them your letter. Before I had a chance to get up from my respectful kneeling position, Gonerils messenger arrived, stinky, sweaty, and out of breath. He interrupted me, spouted out greetings from her, and delivered her letter, which they opened immediately. After reading it, they gathered their entourage together and got on their horses to go. They glared at me and ordered me to follow them and wait for their answer. After we arrived here, I ran into that other messenger who made them give me the cold shoulderthe very same guy who was so rude to you, King. I admit it was foolish to draw my sword on him, but I had to act like a man. He woke up the whole house with his loud and cowardly screams. Thats why your daughter and son-in-law are punishing me shamefully."), ("Fool", "This story bodes more stormy weather. Fathers who wear rags Make their children neglect them. But fathers who are rich Make their children kind. Lady Luck is a fickle whore And never gives the poor a break. But despite all this, your daughters will give you a lot of moneyor do I mean pain?in the coming year."), ("Lear", "Im getting hysterical. I feel my stomach squeezing up against my heart. Calm down, you belong lower down! Where is this daughter of mine?"), ("Kent", "Inside, sir, with the earl."), ("Lear", "Dont follow me. Stay here."), ("Gentleman", "You didnt do anything else to earn this punishment?"), ("Kent", "Nothing. Tell me, why did the king arrive with such a small entourage?"), ("Fool", "If theyd put you in the stocks for asking that question, you wouldve deserved it."), ("Kent", "Why, Fool?"), ("Fool", "You need to learn what ants know well about wintertheres no point in slaving awayif theres no hope for profit. Serving the king will get you nowhere. Everyone cansee that, and even blind men can smell the stench of his misery now. When you see a huge wheel rolling down a hill, you shouldnt try to hold on to it or itll break your neck. But if you see a wheel going uphill, latch on for the ride. And when a wise man givesyou better advice than I just did, give me my advice back again. I only want idiotsfollowing my advice, the advice of a fool. The gentleman who serves you only for profit And is only superficially loyal to you Will take off when it starts to rain And leave you alone in the storm. But Ill linger. The fool will stay. And let the wise man run away. The servant who runs away is a fool. But this fool is no scoundrel, by God."), ("Kent", "Where did you learn that song, Fool?"), ("Fool", "Not in the stocks, fool."), ("Lear", "How can they refuse to speak with me? How can they say that theyre sick or exhausted or that they have traveled all night!? Theyre playing with me. These are tricks. This is rebellion. Go ask them again and make them see me this time."), ("Gloucester", "My dear lord, you know how passionately stubborn the duke is. He never changes his mind."), ("Lear", "Hell! Damn it all to hell! Passionately? What passion? Gloucester, Gloucester, I want to speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife."), ("Gloucester", "My lord, I informed them as much."), ("Lear", "Informed them? Do you understand what Im saying, man?"), ("Gloucester", "Yes, my lord."), ("Lear", "The king wants to speak with Cornwall. The father wants to speak with his daughter. He orders themhe begs them. Did you inform them of that? This is unbelievable! Passionate? The passionate duke? Tell the hot-headed duke that I But no, not yet. Maybe hes not feeling well. When were ill we cant carry out our duties as well as when were healthy. When our bodies are out of order, our minds cant function properly. Ill hold off, and subdue my impulsive temper, which makes me judge a sick man as if he were well. (he notices KENT again) A curse on my royal power! Why should he sit here like this? The fact that they punished him convinces me that Regan and the duke are avoiding me on purpose. I want my servant released. Go tell the duke and his wife Ill speak to them right now, at once. Tell them to come here and hear me out, or else Ill beat a drum at their bedroom door until they cant sleep any more."), ("Gloucester", "I just want everything to be all right between you."), ("Lear", "Oh, my heart, my heart is rising into my throat! Stay down, heart."), ("Fool", "Thats right, uncle, talk to your heart, like the housewifeThe point of the story is that the housewife acts too late. She should have killed the eels before putting them into the pie.housewife who yelled at the eels she was putting in her pie. She hit 'em on the head with a stick and shouted, Down, you naughty things, down! That was the woman whose brother wanted to be nice to his horseHorses wont eat greasy hay, so buttering hay is another example of foolishness.horse, and buttered its hay."), ("Lear", "Good morning to you both."), ("Cornwall", "Hail to your majesty."), ("Regan", "Im glad to see your highness."), ("Lear", "I believe you are, Regan. You know why I think so? Because if you werent glad, Id divorce your dead mother, because Id know she cheated on me. Any true daughter of mine would definitely be glad to see me. (to KENT) Oh, are you free? Well talk about it later. My dear Regan, your sisters not worth anything. Oh, Regan, shes torn me apart with unkindness, like a vulture, right here. (points to his heart) I can hardly speak. Youll never believe how monstrouslyoh, Regan!"), ("Regan", "Calm down, sir, please. I hope theres been a misunderstanding. Its more likely that you dont know how to appreciate her than that shed ever fail in her duties as a daughter."), ("Lear", "How do you mean?"), ("Regan", "I cant believe my sister would neglect her obligations in any way. If she restrained your rowdy knights, she had such a good reason that you cant blame her for it."), ("Lear", "I curse her."), ("Regan", "Sir, youre old. Your life is stretched to its limit. You should let others take care of you and submit to people who know better than you do whats good for you. Please go back to Gonerils house. Admit you were wrong."), ("Lear", "Apologize? Do you think this kind of thing is appropriate for the royal family? (he kneels) Dear daughter, I admit Im old. Old people are useless. Im begging you, on my knees, to give me food, clothes, and a bed."), ("Regan", "No more, please. These are ugly antics. Go back to my sisters."), ("Lear", "(getting up) Never, Regan. Shes sent away half my knights, glared at me, and aimed her venomous insults straight at my heart. She and her ingratitude can go to hell! I hope she gets sick and becomes lame!"), ("Cornwall", "Shush, sir, please!"), ("Lear", "I hope lightning strikes her in the eyes! I hope poisonous swampy fog covers her face and ruins her complexion!"), ("Regan", "Oh, dear gods! Thats how youll talk about me when youre in this mood."), ("Lear", "No, Regan. Ill never curse you. Youre so gentle, youd never be harsh like her. Her eyes are vicious, but yours are comforting. Youd never deny me my pleasures, downsize my entourage, insult me thoughtlessly, reduce my allowance, or lock me out of the house. You know better than she does how important the duties of a child to a parent are, and the responsibilities that come from gratitude. You havent forgotten the half of a kingdom I gave you."), ("Regan", "Sir, lets get to the point."), ("Lear", "Who put my messenger in the stocks?"), ("Cornwall", "Whats that trumpet?"), ("Regan", "I know it. Its my sisters. Shell be here soon, just like her letter said. (to OSWALD) Has my sister arrived?"), ("Lear", "This is a lowlife who basks in the reflection of the fading glory of the woman he works for. Get out of my sight, scoundrel!"), ("Cornwall", "What do you mean, your highness?"), ("Lear", "Who put my servant in the stocks? Regan, I hope you didnt know anything about that. Ah, whos this? Dear gods, if you love old men like me, if you believe in obedience, if you yourselves are old, then please send me down some help! (to GONERIL) Arent you ashamed to look at me after the way youve treated me in my old age? Oh, Regan, are you taking her by the hand?"), ("Goneril", "Why shouldnt she take my hand, father? How exactly have I offended you? Just because a senile man with poor judgment calls something an insult doesnt necessarily mean it is one."), ("Lear", "Oh, how can the sides of my body hold in my grieving heart? How did my messenger wind up in the stocks?"), ("Cornwall", "I sent him there, sir, but his crimes deserved a worse punishment."), ("Lear", "You! You did it?"), ("Regan", "Please, father, since youre weak, act like it. Get rid of half your knights and go back to spend the rest of your month with my sister. Afterward, you can stay with me. Right now Im away from home and I cant provide you with proper care."), ("Lear", "Go back with her? Send away fifty of my knights? No. Id rather renounce living in a house, and wander in the open air in the hardships of poverty, as a friend of the wolf and the owl. Go back with her? I might as well go before the King of France, who took my youngest daughter without a dowry, kneel before his throne, and beg him to give me a tiny pension to stay alive. Go back with her? Id rather be a slave or a packhorse for this hateful stablehand here. (he points to OSWALD)"), ("Goneril", "As you wish, sir."), ("Lear", "I beg you, daughter, dont make me crazy. I wont bother you. Well never see each other again. But youre still my child, my flesh and bloodor rather youre a disease in my flesh, a disease I still have to call my own. Youre a pustule, a sore, a tumor digesting my bloodline. But Ill stop rebuking you. Youll feel shame when the time is right, and I dont urge you to be ashamed now. I wont beg the gods to punish you, or caution you to fear their judgment. Become a better person when youre ready, if youre inclined. Ill wait patiently. Meanwhile Ill stay with Regan with my hundred knights."), ("Regan", "Its not quite that simple. I wasnt expecting you, and Im not ready to receive you. Please hear what Goneril is saying. Were trying to be reasonable while youre so upset, and we understand that youre old, and But Goneril knows what shes doing."), ("Lear", "Do you mean what youve just said?"), ("Regan", "Yes, I do. Isnt fifty knights enough for you? Why would you need more than that? Or even that many. Fifty knights are expensive to maintain, and theres always a risk theyll rebel. How could so many people, under two masters, get along under one roof? It would be hard, almost impossible."), ("Goneril", "Why couldnt you be attended by my servants, or by Regans?"), ("Regan", "Yes, why not, my lord? Then if theyre negligent, we could control them. Now that I think about the danger of these knights, if you come to stay with me, please bring no more than twenty-five of them with you. I wont lodge any more than that under my roof."), ("Lear", "I gave you everything"), ("Regan", "And it was about time too."), ("Lear", "I made you de facto rulers of my kingdom on condition that I could keep a hundred knights of my own. Why should I now have to make do with only twenty-five? Regan, is that what you said?"), ("Regan", "Yes, Ill say it again, my lord. No more than twenty-five."), ("Lear", "Bad people start to look better in comparison with worse people. Not being the worst daughter deserves some praise, I guess. (to GONERIL) Ill go stay with you, then. Your fifty is twice her twenty-five, so you must love me twice as much as she does."), ("Goneril", "Hear me out, my lord. Why do you need twenty-five knights, or ten, or even five, when youre staying in a house with a staff of double that at your service?"), ("Regan", "Why do you need even one?"), ("Lear", "Oh, dont ask me why I need them! Even the poorest beggars have some meager possessions they dont really need. If you allow people no more than what they absolutely need to survive, then a human life is no better than an animals. Youre a well-dressed lady. If you dressed only to stay warm, you wouldnt need these gorgeous clothes youre wearingwhich dont keep you warm at all. If you want to talk about true needs, what I really need is patience. Oh, gods, give me patience! You see me here, gods, a grieving old man, as wretched in his grief as he is in his old age. If youre the ones setting my daughters against me, dont let me be foolish enough to take it lying down. Give me noble anger, and dont let any womanly tears fall down my mans cheeks. No, you monstrous hags, Ill get revenge on you both that will make the whole world I will do such thingsI dont know what Ill do exactly, but itll be devastating. You expect me to cry? Well, I wont. I have a good reason to cry, but my heart will splinter into a hundred thousand pieces before I let myself cry. Oh, Fool, Ill go mad!"), ("Cornwall", "Lets go inside. Theres going to be a storm."), ("Regan", "This is a small house. Theres no room for the old man and his followers."), ("Goneril", "Its his fault that hes all worked up like this. He has to pay the price for his foolish actions."), ("Regan", "Ill be happy to keep him in my house, but not a single knight."), ("Goneril", "Thats what I intend to do too. Where is Gloucester?"), ("Cornwall", "He followed the old man. Here he comes back."), ("Gloucester", "The king is enraged."), ("Cornwall", "Wheres he going?"), ("Gloucester", "He has called for his horse, but I dont know where hes headed."), ("Cornwall", "Its best just to let him go. He wont listen to anyones advice."), ("Goneril", "(to GLOUCESTER) My lord, dont try to persuade him to stay."), ("Gloucester", "Ah, but its getting dark, and the winds are strong and stormy. Theres hardly a bush for miles around. Hell have no shelter."), ("Regan", "Oh, sir, impetuous people learn their lessons from the consequences of their foolish actions. Lock the doors. His attendants are desperate, violent men. Im afraid of what they might encourage him to do, considering the state hes in."), ("Cornwall", "Lock the doors, my lord. Its a wild night. Regan gives good advice. Come in out of the storm."), ("Kent", "Whos there, aside from this foul weather?"), ("Gentleman", "Someone whose mood is as foul as the weather, very troubled."), ("Kent", "I know you. Wheres the king?"), ("Gentleman", "Struggling with the wind and rain. Hes shouting at the wind to blow the earth into the sea, or make the sea flood the earthhe wants to see the world return to primal chaos. He keeps tearing out his white hair, which the blindly raging winds catch up and blow away into nothingness. Small but brave in his surroundings, hes trying to stand up against the wind and rain blowing back and forth. Hes running bareheaded, calling for the end of the world, out there on a night like this, when even savage animals ravenous with hunger crawl under cover and hide."), ("Kent", "But whos with him?"), ("Gentleman", "Nobody but the fool, whos trying to soothe the wounds in the kings heart with jokes."), ("Kent", "Sir, I know you, and I trust you enough to share something very important with you. Theres a feud between Albany and Cornwall, although theyve been clever enough to hide it thus far. Like other powerful rulers, they have servants who are actually French spies in disguise. These spies have noticed something, perhaps in the squabbles between Albany and Cornwall, or in the tough line both of them have taken against the good old king, or perhaps in some deeper matter at the root of both of these problemsThe point is that the King of France has sent troops into our divided kingdom. Some French agents are already at work in our main ports and are on the verge of declaring open war. Now this is where you come in. If you trust me enough to hurry to Dover, youll earn the gratitude of many people when you fairly report the monstrous and maddening extent of the kings suffering. Im a nobleman, and I know what Im doing in assigning this job to you."), ("Gentleman", "Lets discuss it some more."), ("Kent", "(giving the GENTLEMAN a purse and a ring) No, theres no need. To assure you that I am a nobleman in disguise, here is some money. If you see Cordeliaas Im sure you willshow her this ring. Shell tell you who I am. Damn this storm! Ill go find the king."), ("Gentleman", "Let me shake your hand. Do you have anything else to tell me?"), ("Kent", "Only a few more words, but theyre the most important. Let me go this way, and you go that way. When one of us finds the king, hell call out to the other one."), ("Lear", "Blow, winds! Blow until your cheeks crack! Rage on, blow! Let tornadoes spew water until the steeples of our churches and the weathervanes are all drowned. Let quick sulfurous lightning, strong enough to split enormous trees, singe the white hair on my head. Let thunder flatten the spherical world, crack open all the molds from which nature forms human beings, and spill all the seeds from which ungrateful humans grow!"), ("Fool", "Oh, uncle, its better to smile and flatter indoors where its dry than get soaked out here. Please, uncle, lets go in and ask your daughters to forgive you. This storm has no pity for either wise men or fools."), ("Lear", "Let thunder rumble! Let lightning spit fire! Let the rain spray! The rain, the wind, the thunder and lightning are not my daughters. Nature, I dont accuse your weather of unkindness. I never gave you a kingdom or raised you as my child, and you dont owe me any obedience. So go ahead and have your terrifying fun. Here I am, your slavea poor, sick, weak, hated old man. But I can still accuse you of kowtowing, taking my daughters' side against me, ancient as I am. Oh, its foul!"), ("Fool", "Anyone who has a house to cover his head has a good head on his shoulders. The guy who finds a place to put his penis Before he has a house of his own Will wind up dirt poor and covered with lice With a crowd of slut daughters to add to the slut wife. The man who kicks away The person he should love Will bring himself pain And sleepless nights. For there never was a pretty woman who didnt like to preen in the mirror."), ("Lear", "No, Ill be patient. I wont say a word."), ("Kent", "Whos there?"), ("Fool", "A wise man and a fool."), ("Kent", "(to LEAR) Ah, sir, youre here? Even creatures of the night arent out tonight in this storm. The angry skies terrify the animals that usually prowl in the dark, making them stay in their caves. Never in my life have I heard such horrible blasts of thunder, such a roaring downpour, such groaning winds. Its too trying and terrifying for humans to bear."), ("Lear", "Let the gods who stirred up this dreadful storm bring their enemies to light. Any wretched person who has committed secret crimes and escaped justice should tremble in fear now. Better hide now, you murderers, you perjurers, you incest-practicing people who pretend to be virtuous. Tremble and shake, villain, for secretly plotting against human lives. Let all your bottled-up crimes come flooding out at last, as you beg for mercy from the gods who summon these terrifying winds and thunderbolts. Other people have sinned against me more than I have sinned against them."), ("Kent", "Why, youre not even wearing a hat? My lord, theres a hut nearby. It will give you some protection from this storm. Rest there while I go back to the unfriendly house where your sisters are staying, and ask them for help. They are harder than the stones the house is made of. Just now, when I asked them if they knew where you were, they wouldnt let me in. But Ill go back and force them to be polite."), ("Lear", "Im starting to lose my mind. (to the FOOL) Come on, my boy. How are you? Are you cold? Im cold myself. (to KENT) Wheres this hut, man? Odd how when youre desperate, even shoddy things like this hut can seem precious. Show me where that hut is. Poor fool, part of me still feels sorry for you."), ("Fool", "(singing) The stupid man Hey-hoy, the wind and the rain Must take what he can get, Since the rain comes every day."), ("Lear", "Thats true, my good boy. Come on, take us to that hut."), ("Fool", "This would be a great night to satisfy a whores lust. Ill recite a prophecy before I go. One day, when priests dont practice what they preach, When brewers dilute their beer with water, When noblemen teach their tailors how to sew, When instead of heretics being burned at the stake, lovers are burned by syphilis, When every law case is tried fairly, When no gentleman is in debt, When no one slanders anyone else, And thieves dont snatch wallets in crowds, When moneylenders count their gold in the open air, And pimps and whores build fine churches Then the kingdom of England Will come to ruin. And whoever lives to see that day Will walk with his feet. This is the prophecy that the wizard MerlinAccording to legend, Merlin was the wizard at the court of King Arthur and the Round Table and predicted the end of the world in rhymes that are similar to the fools prophecy. However, King Lear takes place centuries before the time the mythical Merlin is supposed to have existed. Merlin will make one day. Im a little ahead of my time in saying it now."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, oh, Edmund, I dont like this monstrous business. When asked the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall if I could take pity on the king and shelter him from the storm, they took my house away from me and ordered me never to talk about him, lobby for him, or support him in any way."), ("Edmund", "Thats uncivilized and unnatural!"), ("Gloucester", "Oh, be quiet. Theres a feud between the two dukes. And theres something even worse than that. I got a letter tonight. Its dangerous to talk about it. Ive locked it up in my room. The humiliation that the king is suffering now will be revenged thoroughly. Armed forces have already landed. We have to take the kings side. Ill look for him and secretly help him. You go and talk to the duke so he wont notice Im helping the king. If he asks to see me, tell him Im sick and went to bed. Even if I have to dieas they threatenI have to help the king. Strange things are about to happen, Edmund. Please be careful."), ("Edmund", "Ill tell the duke right away that youre going to see the king, which is forbidden. And Ill tell him about the letter too. Youll get what you deserve, and Ill be rewarded with everything you losein other words, all your lands. The young generation rises while the old one falls."), ("Kent", "Heres the hut, my lord. Please go inside. The nights too rough for humans to bear."), ("Lear", "Leave me for a bit."), ("Kent", "My lord, here is the entrance."), ("Lear", "Will you break my heart?"), ("Kent", "Id rather break my own heart. Now please go in."), ("Lear", "You think its a big deal that this fierce storm is soaking me to the skin. Its a big deal to you. But whenever you feel a larger pain, the smaller one disappears. You would run away from a bear, but if the only way to run was into the stormy ocean, youd turn around and confront the bear. When your mind is at peace, your body is sensitive to the elements. But this storm in my mind keeps me from feeling anything except whats tormenting mehow ungrateful my children are! Isnt their ingratitude like the mouth biting the hand that feeds it? But Ill punish them thoroughly. No, I wont cry any more. Imagine them locking me out on a night like this! But let it rain; Ill survive. On a night like this! Oh, Regan, Goneril, your kind old father whose generous heart gave you everythingOh, if I think about that Ill go mad. I want to avoid that. No more of these thoughts."), ("Kent", "My lord, please go inside here."), ("Lear", "Go inside yourself. Make yourself comfortable. This storm protects me from thoughts that would hurt me more. But Ill go in. (to FOOL) You go in first, boy. Oh, you suffering homeless peopleNo, you go in. Ill pray first, then Ill sleep. Poor homeless creatures suffering this storm, wherever you are, how will you survive a night like this with no roof over your heads, no fat on your sides to keep you warm, and only rags for clothes? When I was king I didnt do enough to help you. Powerful men, take your medicine by learning about hardship. Go out and feel what the impoverished feel. Then you can give them your extra wealth and make the world more fair."), ("Edgar", "(from inside) The water in here is nine feet deep! Poor Tom!"), ("Fool", "Dont come in here, uncle! Theres a spirit in here! Help me, help me!"), ("Kent", "Give me your hand. Whos there?"), ("Fool", "A ghost, a ghost! He says his names Poor Tom."), ("Kent", "Who are you, moaning in the hut like that? Come out."), ("Edgar", "Go away! The devils after me! The cold wind blows through the hawthorn trees. Ha! Get into your cold beds and warm yourselves up."), ("Lear", "Did you give everything to your two daughters and end up like this?"), ("Edgar", "Whoever gave a thing to Poor Tom? The devil has chased him through fires, across rivers and whirlpools, and over swamps. The devil has put knives under Toms pillow and hangmans ropes in his church pew, encouraging him to kill himself. The devil has put rat poison next to Poor Toms oatmeal and made him gallop his horse over narrow bridges, chasing his own shadow as if it were a traitor. Bless your five senses! Toms chilly. Oh do-de, do-de, do-de. God protect you from tornadoes, evil stars, and diseases! Take pity on Poor Tom, who is persecuted by the devil. I can almost catch him. There! And over there! And over there!"), ("Lear", "Have his daughters made him crazy like this? Couldnt you have kept something for yourself? Did you have to give them everything?"), ("Fool", "No, he kept a blanket to cover himself with. If he hadnt, wed all be embarrassed to look at him."), ("Lear", "Then may your daughters be cursed with all the horrible fates that await sinners!"), ("Kent", "He doesnt have any daughters, sir."), ("Lear", "Like hell! Nothing but cruel daughters could have degraded him like this. Is it fashionable now for neglected fathers to get so little pity? Thats a fair punishment! Im the one who fathered those bloodsucking daughters."), ("Edgar", "Pillicockpillicock = penis; pillicock hill = vulvaPillicock sat on Pillicock hill. La, la, la, la!"), ("Fool", "This stormy night will turn us all into fools and madmen."), ("Edgar", "Beware of the devil. Obey your parents, keep your word, dont swear, dont sleep with another mans wife, and dont covet flashy clothes. Toms chilly."), ("Lear", "What were you before this?"), ("Edgar", "I used to be an honorable devoted servant who curled his hair, wore his mistresss glove in his hat as a token of her affection, and slept with his mistress whenever she wanted. I swore oaths with every other word out of my mouth, and broke the oaths shamelessly. I used to dream of having sex and wake up to do it. I loved wine and gambling, and had more women than a Turkish sultan keeps in his harem. I was disloyal and violent. I eavesdropped. I was as lazy as a hog, as sneaky as a fox, as greedy as a wolf, as mad as a dog, and as ruthless as a lion. Dont ever let a woman know what youre thinking. Stay away from whores, dont chase skirts, dont borrow money, and resist the devil. The cold winds still blowing through the hawthorn tree. (speaking to an imaginary horse) Dauphin, my boy, stop that. Let the horse go by."), ("Lear", "Youd be better off dead than facing the storm as naked as you are. Is this all a human being is? Look at him. (to EDGAR) You are not indebted to animals for your clothes since dont wear silk, leather, or woolnot even perfumePerfume can be made from the secretions of a civet cat.perfume. Ha! The three of us are sophisticated compared to you. Youre the real thing. The human being unburdened by the trappings of civilization is no more than a poor, naked, two-legged animal like you. Off with these clothes borrowed from animals! Let me unbutton this. (he tears at his clothes)"), ("Fool", "Please calm down, uncle. This is a nasty night to go swimming. On a night like this a campfire in an empty field would be like the heart of a dirty old mana tiny spark in a cold body. Look, here comes a walking fire."), ("Edgar", "This is the devil Flibbertigibbet. He gets up at nightfall and wanders around till dawn. He can make your eyes squint and film over and give you a harelip. He rots ripened wheat and hurts the poor creatures of the earth. Saint Withold crossed the field three times, He met a she-demon and her nine kids, He told her to promise To stop doing harm. And go away, witch, go away."), ("Kent", "How are you, your highness?"), ("Lear", "(pointing at GLOUCESTER) Whos that?"), ("Kent", "Who are you? What do you want?"), ("Gloucester", "Who are you? What are your names?"), ("Edgar", "Poor Tom, who eats frogs, toads, tadpoles, lizards, and newts. When the devil tells me to, I eat cow dung for salads, I swallow old rats and dead dogs, I drink pond scum. In every village Im whipped and put in the stocks, punished and imprisoned. But I used to be a respectable servant, with three suits and six shirts. Once I had a horse to ride and a sword to wear, but now poor Toms been eating rats and mice for seven long years. Beware of the devil who follows me around. Calm down, Smulkin, you fiend!"), ("Gloucester", "(to LEAR) Dont you have anyone more respectable with you, your highness?"), ("Edgar", "Oh, the devil is quite a gentleman. Hes called Modo and Mahu."), ("Gloucester", "(to LEAR) My lord, our children have become so beastly that they hate their own parents."), ("Edgar", "Poor Toms chilly."), ("Gloucester", "Come back to my house with me. I couldnt bear to obey all of your daughters' harsh orders. They commanded me to lock my doors and leave you out in this merciless storm, but Ive come out here to find you and take you where theres warmth and food."), ("Lear", "First let me talk with this philosopher here.(to EDGAR) What causes thunder?"), ("Kent", "(to LEAR) Sir, please take him up on his offer and go back with him."), ("Lear", "I want to chat a bit with this wise GreekIn Shakespeares time the Greeks were associated with wisdom and education, especially in philosophy. Important Greek works in philosophy and the sciences had been recently rediscovered after centuries of oblivion. Greek man. What kind of philosophy do you study?"), ("Edgar", "How to keep the devil away and kill rats."), ("Lear", "Let me ask you something in private."), ("Kent", "(speaking so that only GLOUCESTER can hear) Ask him again to return with you, my lord. Hes beginning to lose his mind."), ("Gloucester", "Can you blame him? His daughters want to kill him. Ah, good old Kent said this would happenthat poor, banished man. You say the king is losing his mind. Let me tell you, my friend, Im almost insane myself. I had a son, whom Ive legally disowned. He tried to kill me recently, very recently. I loved him, as much as any father ever loved his son. To tell you the truth, Im crazed with grief. What a storm! (to LEAR) Your highness, please, Im begging you"), ("Lear", "Excuse me, sir.(to EDGAR) Noble philosopher, come talk to me."), ("Edgar", "Toms chilly."), ("Gloucester", "Get into the hut, man. Stay warm."), ("Lear", "Come on, lets all go inside."), ("Kent", "This way, my lord."), ("Lear", "(pointing to EDGAR) Ill go with him. I want to stay with my philosopher."), ("Kent", "(to GLOUCESTER) My lord, calm him down. Let him take that guy inside too."), ("Gloucester", "All right, bring him along."), ("Kent", "(to EDGAR) Boy, come along with us."), ("Lear", "Come on, my dear Greek philosopher."), ("Gloucester", "Hush, dont talk."), ("Edgar", "The young knight Roland came to the dark tower. He said, Fee, fie, fo, fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman."), ("Cornwall", "Ill get my revenge before I leave this house."), ("Edmund", "Im afraid to think how Ill be criticized for letting my natural affection for my father give way to my loyalty to you."), ("Cornwall", "Now I realize your brother tried to kill your father not just because your brother is an evil man, but because your father deserved it by being wicked himself."), ("Edmund", "How unlucky am I, having to apologize for doing the right thing! (giving CORNWALL a letter) This is the letter he was talking about, and it confirms he was a spy for France. Oh God, I wish he had never betrayed us, or that I hadnt been the one to discover his treason."), ("Cornwall", "Come with me to see the duchess."), ("Edmund", "If this letters right, youve got a lot to deal with."), ("Cornwall", "Right or not, its made you the Earl of Gloucester. Go find your father and let him know were going to arrest him."), ("Edmund", "(to himself) If I catch my father helping the king, hell seem even more guily. (to CORNWALL) Ill do what I must loyally, even though it pains me to take action against my father."), ("Cornwall", "I put my trust in you. Youll see that Im a better father to you than Gloucester."), ("Gloucester", "Its better here than outside. Be happy about it. Ill do what I can to make you even more comfortable. I wont be gone long."), ("Kent", "He cant bear his grief and so hes losing his mind. May God reward you for your kindness!"), ("Edgar", "The devil Frateretto is telling me that the diabolical Roman emperor NeroNero was a first-century A. D. Roman emperor who, according to legend, played the fiddle while Rome burned. Nero likes to go fishing in hell. Pray to the gods, you fool, and beware the foul devil."), ("Fool", "Heres a riddle, uncle. Is the lunatic a gentleman or an ordinary guy?"), ("Lear", "Hes a king, a king!"), ("Fool", "No, hes an ordinary guy who s got a gentleman for a son, since someone would have to be crazy to let his son become a gentleman before hes achieved that distinction himself."), ("Lear", "I see Regan and Goneril in hellA thousand hissing devils with sizzling red pitchforks come up to them!"), ("Edgar", "The nasty devils biting my butt."), ("Fool", "Youve got to be crazy to trust a wolf that pretends to be tame, a horse that seems healthy, a teenager in love, or a whore who swears shell be faithful."), ("Lear", "Ill do it. Ill put them on trialLear begins a mock trial of Goneril and Regan.trial right now. (to EDGAR) Come sit here, our able judge. (to FOOL) And you sit here, wise sir. Now, you she-foxes"), ("Edgar", "There he is, standing and glaring at me! Hey, lady, cant you see how the judge is? (sings) Come over the stream to me, dear Bessy"), ("Fool", "(sings) Shes getting her period, And she wont tell you Why she wont come see you."), ("Edgar", "The devil sings like a nightingale to haunt Poor Tom. The demon Hoppedance is in Toms belly, crying for some fish to eat. Stop whining, devil. Ive got no food to give you."), ("Kent", "(to LEAR) How are you, sir? Please dont stand there in a daze. Wouldnt you like to lie down on the pillows?"), ("Lear", "No, I want to see their trial first. Lets have the evidence. (to EDGAR) Take your place, honorable judge. (to FOOL) And you, his fellow justice of the peace, sit next to him. (to KENT) You can also be a judge. Sit down as well."), ("Edgar", "Lets give a fair verdict. (sings) Are you asleep or awake, happy shepherd? Your sheep are running around the cornfield. But if you blow your cute little horn, Your sheep will be fine. Purr! The devil-cat is gray."), ("Lear", "Lets put Goneril on trial first. There she is. I hereby swear before this honored assembly that she kicked her father when he was down."), ("Fool", "Come here, ma'am. Is your name Goneril?"), ("Lear", "She cant deny it."), ("Fool", "Im so sorry, ma'am, I thought you were a good person, a well-made chair instead of a crude stool."), ("Lear", "And heres Regan, whose grotesque face betrays her twisted heart. Stop her! Guards, guards, use your weapons. Fire! The courtroom is in chaos. You corrupt judge, why did you let her escape?"), ("Edgar", "Bless your heart."), ("Kent", "(to LEAR) How sorrowful! Sir, wheres the self-control you used to be so proud of?"), ("Edgar", "(to himself) I feel so sorry for him that my tears are starting to ruin my disguise."), ("Lear", "Look at the three little dogs, Tray, Blanch, and Sweetheartall barking at me."), ("Edgar", "Tom will chase them off. Go away, you mongrels! Whether you bite to kill, Mastiff, greyhound, or ugly mutt, Hound or spaniel, bitch or dog, Whether your tail is short or curly Tom will make you cry and wail. With one little toss of his head, He can scare you off for good. Whether your mouth is black or white, Do-dee, dee-dee da. Stop! Run off, go visit fairs and festivals! Poor Tom, your cup is empty."), ("Lear", "Now let them dissect Regan and her hard heart. Is there any natural cause for hardening of the heart? (to EDGAR) Sir, you can serve me as one of my hundred knights. But I dont like your style of clothes. Im sure youll tell me theyre fabulous, but I think you should change them anyway."), ("Kent", "Please lie down and rest a while, my lord."), ("Lear", "Be quiet, be quiet. Draw the curtains, just like that. Well have supper in the morning. Thats right. (he falls asleep)"), ("Fool", "And Ill go to bed at noon."), ("Gloucester", "(to KENT) Come here, my friend. Wheres my master the king?"), ("Kent", "Hes here, sir, but please dont bother him. Hes out of his right mind."), ("Gloucester", "Please get him, my friend, I beg you. Ive overheard people plotting to kill him. I have a carriage ready. Put him inside and take him to Dover, where youll find people wholl welcome and protect him. Carry your master out. If you waste even half an hour, hell be killed, along with you and everyone else helping him. Bring him here, carry him and follow me. Ill quickly take you to where you can find supplies."), ("Kent", "Lears suffering has finally put him to sleep. (to the sleeping LEAR) This rest might have calmed your shattered nerves. It will be difficult for you to get better now that rest is impossible. (to FOOL) Come on, help me carry your master. You cant stay here."), ("Gloucester", "Come on, come on."), ("Edgar", "When we see that our betters have the same problems we do, we can almost forget our own misery. The person who suffers alone suffers the most. Companions in sorrow alleviate our grief. My troubles seem so easy to bear now that I see the king collapsing under a similar sorrow. His children have done the same to him as my father has to me. Lets go, Tom. Well pay attention to the political situation, and youll be able to reveal your true identity when youre proven innocent. Whatever else happens tonight, I hope the king escapes safely! Lurk out of sight."), ("Cornwall", "(to GONERIL) Hurry to your husband. Show him this letter. The French army has landed. Find the traitor Gloucester."), ("Regan", "Hang him immediately."), ("Goneril", "Gouge out his eyes!"), ("Cornwall", "Leave him to my wrath. Edmund, go with my sister-in-law. You shouldnt have to see the punishment we inflict on your father. Tell the Duke of Albany to prepare for war immediately. We will do the same. Well keep the lines of communication open between us. (to GONERIL) Goodbye, my dear sister-in-law. (to EDMUND) Goodbye, lord Gloucester. Hello. Wheres the king?"), ("Oswald", "Lord Gloucester has helped him leave. Thirty-five or thirty-six of his knights met him at the gate, and together with some others theyve set off for Dover, where they claim to have powerful friends."), ("Cornwall", "Prepare the horses for your lady."), ("Goneril", "Goodbye, my sweet lord. Goodbye, my sister."), ("Cornwall", "Goodbye, Edmund. Go find the traitor Gloucester. Tie him up like a thief and bring him here to me. I cant condemn him to death without a formal trial, but Im powerful enough that I can still do something to express my anger. Some men may blame me for doing this, but they wont be able to do anything about it. Whos there? Is that the traitor?"), ("Regan", "Ungrateful traitor! Thats him."), ("Cornwall", "Tie up his withered old arms."), ("Gloucester", "What are you doing? My friends, remember that youre my guests here. Dont play any nasty tricks on me."), ("Cornwall", "Tie him up, I tell you."), ("Regan", "Tie him up harder. You filthy traitor!"), ("Gloucester", "Im not a traitor, unfair lady."), ("Cornwall", "Tie him to this chair. Youll see, criminal"), ("Gloucester", "By the gods, its disgraceful for you to pull my beard."), ("Regan", "As old and white-haired as you are, and youre such a traitor?"), ("Gloucester", "Wicked woman, these white hairs youre pulling off my chin will come to life and accuse you of wrong-doing. You are my guests. This is no way to treat a host who has welcomed you into his house. What do you think youre doing?"), ("Cornwall", "Tell us about the letters that you got from France."), ("Regan", "Get to the point, since we already know the truth."), ("Cornwall", "And whats your connection with the traitors who landed in our kingdom recently?"), ("Regan", "The ones youve sent our lunatic king to. Tell us."), ("Gloucester", "I got a letter that made some guesses about what was going on, without any proof. It came from a neutral party, not from someone opposed to you."), ("Cornwall", "How clever of you."), ("Regan", "Clever lies."), ("Cornwall", "Where have you sent the king?"), ("Gloucester", "To Dover."), ("Regan", "Why Dover? Werent you ordered, on penalty of"), ("Cornwall", "Why Dover? Let him answer that question first."), ("Gloucester", "Im backed into a corner with nowhere to run."), ("Regan", "Why Dover?"), ("Gloucester", "Because I didnt want to watch while you gouged out his poor old eyes with your cruel fingernails, or while your vicious sister sank her fangs into his sacred flesh. You left him out in the storm in the black night, bareheaded, a storm so terrible that if it had happened at sea, the waters would have risen up and extinguished the fire burning in the stars. And the poor old man just wept, mixing his tears with the rain. If wolves had been howling outside your gate at the heart of that storm, you wouldve told your doorman to let them in, despite all the cruelties you inflict on the world. But soon Ill see the gods punish you for your lack of respect to your father."), ("Cornwall", "You wont be seeing anything. Hold his chair still, men. Im going to put my foot on his eyes."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, help me, anyone who wants to live long! Oh, so cruel! Oh dear gods!"), ("Regan", "Now hes a little crooked. Gouge out the other eye too."), ("Cornwall", "If you see vengeance"), ("First servant", "Stop, my lord! Ive served you since childhood, but Ive never done you a better service than telling you to stop."), ("Regan", "Whats this, you dog?"), ("First servant", "I am willing to fight you if I must. What do you mean by all this?"), ("Cornwall", "My peasant, acting like this?"), ("First servant", "Come on then. Over my dead body."), ("Regan", "(to another servant) Give me your sword. A lowly peasant defying his lord like this? She takes a sword and stabs the FIRST SERVANT from behind, killing him."), ("First servant", "I am dying! My lord, you still have one eye left to see Cornwall punished. Oh!(he dies)"), ("Cornwall", "Well just have to stop him from seeing ever again. Out, vile jelly, pop out of your eye sockets! (he gouges out GLOUCESTERs other eye) Wheres your sparkle now?"), ("Gloucester", "Nothing but darkness and horror. Wheres my son Edmund? Edmund, let your love for me ignite your bloodlust to avenge this horrible crime!"), ("Regan", "Wrong, evil traitor. Youre appealing to a son who hates you. He was the one who revealed your treason to us. Hes too good to have any compassion for you."), ("Gloucester", "What a fool Ive been! This means Ive mistreated Edgar. Dear God, forgive me. Let him be well!"), ("Regan", "Kick him out of the gate. He can sniff his way to Dover. (to CORNWALL) What is it, my lord? Why do you look like that?"), ("Cornwall", "Im wounded. Follow me, madam. Throw the blind traitor outside. And throw this dead peasant into the manure pit. Regan, Im bleeding. Its a bad time for such an injury. Give me your arm."), ("Second servant", "If our criminal master gets off free, I wont care what happens to me anymore."), ("Third servant", "If she lives a long and happy life, then all women may as well turn into monsters."), ("Second servant", "Lets follow the old earl, and get that crazy Tom to take him wherever he wants to go. As a wandering lunatic, he can do whatever he wants."), ("Third servant", "Go ahead. Ill get some cloth and egg whites to bandage his bleeding face. Heaven help him!"), ("Edgar", "Still, Im better off now, as a beggar who is openly hated, than when I was flattered to my face hated in secret. The lowliest and most dejected creatures live without fear and still harbor hope. The worst kind of change is when good fortune turns sour. At the bottom, any change is for the better. So I welcome this wind freely. Ive sunk as far down as I can go, so Ive got nothing more to fear from the weather. But who is this? My father, led by a poor peasant? Oh, life is full of surprises! We age and die because they wear us out."), ("Old man", "(to GLOUCESTER) My good lord, Ive rented land from you and your father for eighty years."), ("Gloucester", "Away, get out of here. Leave me, my friend. Theres nothing you can do to help me now, and being with me puts your life in danger."), ("Old man", "But you cant see where youre going, sir."), ("Gloucester", "I dont have anywhere to go, so I dont need to see. When I could see, I didnt always see clearly. I made mistakes, I stumbled and fell. Its often the case that having something makes us spoiled, while not having it turns out to be advantageous. So may it be with my eyesight. Oh, my dear son Edgar, how enraged I was at you when I was deceived. If I live long enough to touch you again, that would be as good as having my eyesight back."), ("Old man", "Whos that? Whos there?"), ("Edgar", "(to himself) Oh, gods! Who can ever say, This is as bad as it can get? Im worse off now than ever before."), ("Old man", "(to GLOUCESTER) Its poor crazy Tom."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) And my life could still be worse. If you have the presence of mind to say, This is the worst, then its not the worst yet."), ("Old man", "(to EDGAR) Where are you going, man?"), ("Gloucester", "Is it a beggar?"), ("Old man", "Yes, hes both crazy and a beggar."), ("Gloucester", "Well, he cant be completely crazy, or he wouldnt be able to beg. Last night during the storm I saw a man who was both poor and crazy. He made me think that men are as weak and insignificant as worms. I was reminded of my son, even though I despised my son at that time. Now I know better. The gods play around with us as cruelly as schoolboys who pull the wings off flies."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) Whats going on? I hate pretending Im a wandering beggar when all I want to do now is comfort my poor father. Bless you, master."), ("Gloucester", "Is that the naked guy?"), ("Old man", "Yes, my lord."), ("Gloucester", "(to the OLD MAN) Then please go. If youre willing to do me a favor, as an old friend, then catch up to us a mile or two further on the way to Dover, and bring some clothes for this poor beggar. Ill ask him to be my guide."), ("Old man", "But sir, hes crazy."), ("Gloucester", "Its the tragedy of our times that lunatics must lead the blind. Do as I asked you. Or rather, do what you feel like doing. But above all, get out of here."), ("Old man", "Ill bring the crazy beggar the best clothes I have, no matter what happens."), ("Gloucester", "Hey, naked guy"), ("Edgar", "Poor Toms chilly. (to himself) I cant play this role any longer."), ("Gloucester", "Come here, man."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) But I must. Bless you, sir. Your dear eyes are bleeding."), ("Gloucester", "Do you know the way to Dover?"), ("Edgar", "I know it like the back of my hand, every step of the way. Poor Tom has been scared out of his mind. Bless you, good man, and stay away from the devil. Five devils haunted Poor Tom at the same time: Obidicut, the devil of lust; Hobbididence, the devil of mutes; Mahu, the devil of stealing; Modo, the devil of murder; and Flibbertigibbet, the devil of mockery, who causes chambermaids to make silly faces. Bless you, master."), ("Gloucester", "(giving EDGAR a purse) Here, take some money. The torments of heaven have brought you down to this humble state. My misery makes you more fortunate in comparison. It should always work like that. The spoiled man who has everything, who cant see the misery around him because he doesnt feel it himself, should be made to feel agony so he can learn to share his wealth. That way wealth would be redistributed until everyone has enough to survive. Are you familiar with Dover?"), ("Edgar", "Yes, sir."), ("Gloucester", "Theres a cliff there that leans precariously over the deep sea. Take me to the edge of it, and Ill reward all your troubles with something valuable. Once Im there, I wont need a guide anymore."), ("Edgar", "Give me your arm. Poor Tom will take you there."), ("Goneril", "Welcome, my lord. Im surprised my bland husband didnt meet me on the way here. Wheres your master?"), ("Oswald", "Hes inside, ma'am, but he has changed dramatically since you last saw him. When I told him that the invading army has landed, he just smiled at me. When I told him you were on your way, he replied, Too bad. When I told him about Gloucesters betrayal and his son Edmunds loyal service, he called me an idiot and said I had it all wrong. He was delighted by the bad news and disgusted by the good news."), ("Goneril", "(to EDMUND) Then dont come in with me. Hes a coward and cant commit himself to doing anything risky. He chooses not to be insulted rather than challenge those who offend him. But what we talked about with longing on the way may soon come true. EdmundGoneril may be referring to the beginnings of a romance between her and Edmund. Edmund, go back to see my brother-in-law. Gather his soldiers and organize his troops. I plan to take charge of my household. From now on I will wear the pants, and my husband can play the housewife. We can trust Oswald to carry messages between us. If you act boldly, you will soon obey me as your true mistress. Take this as a token of my esteem. Dont speak. Lean down. This kiss should encourage you. (she kissesEDMUNDGonerils words suggest both that she will take charge and that she will become Edmunds lover. In many productions, Goneril gives Edmund a chain that she puts around his neck. EDMUND) I hope you understand me. Goodbye, and good luck."), ("Edmund", "Im at your service until death."), ("Goneril", "My dear Gloucester! What a man!especially compared to my husband. Edmund, you deserve me to be your woman. Theres a fool sharing my bed now."), ("Oswald", "Ma'am, my masters coming."), ("Goneril", "So you finally find me worthy of your attentions."), ("Albany", "Goneril, you arent worth the dust the wind blows in your face. I dont trust you. You cant trust anyone who abuses her own father, her flesh and blood. A woman who breaks off relations with her bloodline is like a branch that tries to break away from the tree. She will wither and come to a bad end."), ("Goneril", "Oh, shut up. Your words are idiotic."), ("Albany", "Bad people cant appreciate wisdom or goodness. They only like things as bad as themselves. What have you two sisters done? Youre tigers, not daughters. Barbaric degenerates, youve driven insane a kindly old father, whom even an angry bear would treat gent-ly. Could my good brother-in-lawa man to whom the king gave half his kingdomhave allowed you to do it? If the heavens dont punish these crimes immediately, the end will come. Human beings will become cannibals, like ravenous sea fishes."), ("Goneril", "Coward! You take everything lying down, you just turn the other cheekyou cant even see the difference between being honored and being taken advantage of! If we punish criminalsBy criminals, Goneril may be referring to Gloucester, Lear, Cordelia, or all three.criminals before they have a chance to commit their crimes, youre a fool to pity them. Why arent you preparing for war? The French have invaded our peaceful country. Your territory is at risk, and all you can do is sit around like a preachy fool and whine, Ah, why is he doing that?"), ("Albany", "Look at yourself, devilish shrew! A woman deformed by hatred and rage is more horrifying than the devil!at least the devil is supposed to look that way."), ("Goneril", "You useless fool!"), ("Albany", "Shame on you, warped hag! Your true demonic features are distorting your body. If I let myself do what I yearn to, Id rip the flesh off your bones. But I wont attack a woman, even if she is a demon."), ("Goneril", "I sneeze on your manhood. Ha!"), ("Albany", "What news do you bring?"), ("First messenger", "Oh my lord, the Duke of Cornwalls dead. He was killed by his servant as he about to gouge out Glouces-ters other eye."), ("Albany", "Gloucesters eyes?"), ("First messenger", "A servant Gloucester had raised in his house, full of compunction, opposed the blinding and turned his sword on the Duke of Cornwall. Enraged, Cornwall attacked and killed the servant, but not without receiving his own wound, of which he later died."), ("Albany", "Theres justice in heaven after all! That these crimes are punished so quickly is proof. But oh, poor Glou-cester! Did he lose his other eye?"), ("First messenger", "He lost both, my lord. Ma'am, this letter is from your sister, and needs an immediate answer."), ("Goneril", "(to herself) In a way Im glad to hear that Cornwall is dead. But on the other hand, Edmund is traveling with Regan, who is now a widow. If something happens between them on the road, it would shatter my hopes of having Edmund for myself and escaping this hateful life. Still, there are benefits to having Cornwall out of the way. Ill read this letter and answer it."), ("Albany", "Where was Gloucesters son Edmund when they gouged his eyes out?"), ("First messenger", "He was on his way here with your wife."), ("Albany", "But he isnt here now."), ("First messenger", "No, my lord. I met him going back again."), ("Albany", "Does he know about this wicked crime?"), ("First messenger", "Yes, my lord. He was the one who denounced his father. He then left the house specifically so that the punishment might be carried out without concern for their father-son bond."), ("Albany", "Gloucester, Ill thank you forever for the love youve shown the king. Ill get revenge for what they did to your eyes. Come here, my friend. What else you do know?"), ("Kent", "Do you know why the King of France suddenly went back home?"), ("Gentleman", "Hed left some unfinished business, which he remembered after arriving here. It was urgent and important enough to require his personal presence."), ("Kent", "Whom did he leave in charge here?"), ("Gentleman", "The marshal of France, Monsieur la Far."), ("Kent", "Was Queen Cordelia aggrieved by the letters you delivered?"), ("Gentleman", "Yes, sir. She took the letters and read them in front of me. Now and then a large tear trickled down her delicate cheek. She seemed to be trying to control her emotions, which were overwhelming her."), ("Kent", "So she was moved by it?"), ("Gentleman", "There were no outbursts. She was struggling between emotion and self-control. Youve seen how it can rain while the sun shines? Thats how she was, smiling and crying at once, only more lovely. The little smile on her full lips didnt seem aware of the tears that were dropping like diamonds from her pearly eyes. If everyone looked so lovely in their sorrow, then sorrow would be highly prized."), ("Kent", "She didnt ask anything?"), ("Gentleman", "Actually, once or twice she sighed and said, father, as if the word were pressing on her chest. Once she exclaimed, Sisters, sisters, shame on you! Kent, father, sisters! What, out in a storm in the middle of the night? I cant believe it. The tears fell from her eyes like holy water. Then she ran away to grieve alone."), ("Kent", "It must be fate that makes us who we areotherwise someone as good as Cordelia could not possibly be related to those two witches. Have you not spoken to her since then?"), ("Gentleman", "No."), ("Kent", "Did this happen before the King of France returned home?"), ("Gentleman", "No, afterward."), ("Kent", "Well, sir, poor delirious Lear is in town. Sometimes when hes lucid he remembers why were here, and absolutely refuses to see his daughter."), ("Gentleman", "Why, good sir?"), ("Kent", "Hes too overwhelmed with shame. He remembers how unkind he was to her, how he disowned her and sent her abroad, how he gave her rightful inheritance to her two dog-hearted sisters. All those memories pain his mind so deeply that guilt and shame keep him away from Cordelia."), ("Gentleman", "Oh, the poor man!"), ("Kent", "Have you heard about Albanys and Cornwalls troops?"), ("Gentleman", "I have. Theyre on the march."), ("Kent", "Well, sir, Ill take you to Lear and have you stay with him a while. I have important business that requires me to remain in disguise a while longer. When Ive revealed my true identity, youll be glad you took the time to help me out. Please come with me."), ("Cordelia", "Sadly, its the king thats missing. They saw him just now as mad and deranged as the stormy sea, singing loudly, wearing a crown of nettles, thorns, hemlock, and all the other weeds that grow in our cornfields. Send out a hundred soldiers to find him. Search high and low, in every acre of the fields, and bring him here for me to see him. What can human knowledge do to make him sane again? Id give all my wealth to whoever can help him."), ("Doctor", "There is a way, ma'am. Nature heals people with rest, which Lear hasnt had. But there are many herbs that will help him rest and take his mind off his anguish for a while."), ("Cordelia", "Then Ill water all those precious herbs with my tears to make them grow. May they relieve a sick old mans suffering. Go find those herbs for him, before his madness puts his life in danger."), ("Second messenger", "I have news, ma'am. The British forces are on their way here."), ("Cordelia", "We already knew that. Our forces are ready for them. Oh, father, Im taking care of your business. Thats why the King of France listened to my pleas and tears. Were not invading England out of ambition or greed, but out of lovedear love!and my fathers right to his kingdom. I hope I see him and hear him again soon."), ("Regan", "Have my brother-in-laws troops been mobilized?"), ("Oswald", "Yes, ma'am."), ("Regan", "Is he there in person?"), ("Oswald", "Yes, making a big fuss. Your sisters the better soldier of the two."), ("Regan", "Lord Edmund didnt speak to your master at home?"), ("Oswald", "No, ma'am."), ("Regan", "What could my sisters letter to him say?"), ("Oswald", "I dont know, ma'am."), ("Regan", "He rushed away on serious business. It was a huge mistake to let old Gloucester live after we blinded him. Wherever he goes, he inspires compassion and people turn against us. I think Edmund went off to kill him, to put him out of his blind misery. And also to find out the size of the enemy army."), ("Oswald", "I have to follow him and give him the letter."), ("Regan", "Our troops are deployed tomorrow. Stay with us tonight. Its dangerous out there."), ("Oswald", "I cant, ma'am. My lady ordered me to deliver her letter."), ("Regan", "Why would she write to Edmund? Couldnt you just deliver the message orally? It probably has something to do with I dont know. Ill be so grateful to you if you let me open that letter."), ("Oswald", "Ma'am, Id rather"), ("Regan", "I know your lady Goneril doesnt love her husband. Im sure of that. And when she was here recently she flirted with Edmund and gave him significant glances. I know she trusts you and tells you everything."), ("Oswald", "Me, ma'am?"), ("Regan", "I know what Im talking about. Youre close to her, I know it. So I recommend you take note of what Im about to say. My husband is dead. Edmund and I have talked, and it makes more sense for him to marry me than Goneril. You can figure out the rest. If you find him, please giveRegan probably hands something to Oswald here, such as a letter or a love token.give him this. And when your mistress hears about all this, please tell her to use her head next time. So goodbye. If you happen to hear anything about that blind traitor Gloucester, Ill reward anyone who snuffs him out."), ("Oswald", "If I could run into him, ma'am, Id prove which side Im on."), ("Regan", "Goodbye."), ("Gloucester", "When will we get to the top of that cliff?"), ("Edgar", "Were walking up to the top right now. See how hard it is to climb?"), ("Gloucester", "The ground feels flat to me."), ("Edgar", "No, its dreadfully steep. Listen. Do you hear the sea?"), ("Gloucester", "No, really, I dont."), ("Edgar", "Then your other senses must be getting worse because of the trauma of blindness."), ("Gloucester", "It may be so. It seems to me that your voice has changed, and that your speech is more elegant than it used to be."), ("Edgar", "Youre mistaken about all that. The only thing different about me is my clothes."), ("Gloucester", "I think youre more articulate."), ("Edgar", "Come on, sir. This is the place. Stand still. Its so scary to look down! It makes me dizzy. The crows flying down below look as small as ants. Halfway down the cliff theres somebody clinging to the rock and gathering wild herbsa risky business! He looks like a dot to me. The fishermen walking along the beach are as small as mice. That big ship over there looks no bigger than its lifeboat, and its lifeboat looks as small as a tiny buoy. Up here you cant even hear the waves crashing against the rocks. I have to stop looking, or my head will start spinning and Ill fall."), ("Gloucester", "Lead me to where youre standing."), ("Edgar", "Give me your hand. Youre now within a foot of the cliffs edge. I wouldnt try to jump up and down here for anything on earth."), ("Gloucester", "Let go of my hand. (he gives EDGAR another purse) Heres another purse, my friend. Inside it theres a jewel that any poor man would be happy to have. I hope its only the beginning of future prosperity for you. Now go further away. Say goodbye to me, and let me hear your footsteps as you walk away."), ("Edgar", "Goodbye, good sir."), ("Gloucester", "With all my heart."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) Im toying with his despair to cure him of it."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, you mighty gods! (he kneels) I hereby renounce this world and all my troubles and torments. If I could bear them better, and not fight against your unstoppable decisions, then I would simply wait until I expired naturally. If Edgars alive, bless him, gods! Now, man, goodbye. (he falls)"), ("Edgar", "Gone, sir. Goodbye. (to himself) But I still wonder if its possible for his own imagination to kill him, since hes so willing to die. If hed been standing on the edge of the cliff as he thought, hed be dead right now. Is he alive or dead? Hey, sir, friend! Can you hear me? Answer me. Maybe he passed away after all. But no, hes stirring. Who are you, sir?"), ("Gloucester", "Go away and let me die."), ("Edgar", "Even if you were made of feathers and air, you shouldve been smashed in pieces like an egg after falling as far as you just did. But your flesh is solid, your mind is strong, youre breathing and talking, youre not bleeding. You just fell the height of ten ship masts, straight down. Its a miracle youre alive. Say something again."), ("Gloucester", "But did I fall or not?"), ("Edgar", "You fell from the terrifying top of this chalk cliff. Look for yourselfsee the top of the cliff way up there? The lark shrilly singing up there is too far away to be heard. Just look."), ("Gloucester", "I cant. I have no eyes. If youre wretched and desperate, arent you allowed to kill yourself? It used to be the last ditch comfort of miserable people."), ("Edgar", "Give me your arm. Get up. There you go. How do you feel? Can you feel your legs? Youre standing."), ("Gloucester", "Only too well."), ("Edgar", "This is beyond weird. What was that thing I saw moving away from you up on the cliff before you fell?"), ("Gloucester", "That was a poor unlucky beggar."), ("Edgar", "From down here, I thought his eyes looked like full moons. He had a thousand noses and twisted horns, like wave crests in a storm at sea. It was some devil. You lucky old man, it seems that the gods have saved your life. They love to perform miracles so that humans will worship them."), ("Gloucester", "I understand now. From now on Ill put up with my anguish until the anguish itself cries out, Enough, enough! and disappears. I thought that thing youre talking about was a man. It would often talk about the devil. It took me to that deadly place."), ("Edgar", "Cheer up and be at peace. But who is that? A sane person would never dress like this."), ("Lear", "No, they cant accuse me of counterfeiting coins. Im the king himself."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) Oh, what a heartbreaking sight!"), ("Lear", "Lifes better at breaking heartsLears insane speeches are full of non sequiturs and difficult to follow.breaking hearts than art is. Hey, a new recruit. Heres your enlistment bonus. Look how awkwardly he handles his crossbow. Come on, pull it back farther! Look, look, a mouse! Calm down, this piece of cheese will get him. I challenge you to a match. Ill even fight a giant. Call out the infantry. Oh, that arrow was well shot. Whoosh! Right in the bulls eye. Whats the password?"), ("Edgar", "Sweet marjoram."), ("Lear", "Thats it!"), ("Gloucester", "I know that voice."), ("Lear", "Ha! Goneril with a white beard? Ha, Regan? They flattered me and told me how wise I was, wise before my time. To agree to everything I said was not truly devout. The rain came to drench me, and the wind to make me shiver, and the thunder wouldnt stop roaring when I ordered it to. Thats when I learned the truth about them. Thats when I sniffed them out. I tell you, they are not honest men. They told me I was everything. Its a lie. Im not immune to chills."), ("Gloucester", "I recognize something about that voice. Isnt that the king?"), ("Lear", "Yes, every inch a king. My subjects tremble when I look at them. I pardon that man. What are you accused of? Adultery? Ill commute your death sentence. To die for adultery? No. Little birds do it, and dragonflies copulate right in front of me. Lets have more sex in the world, since Gloucesters bastard son was kinder to him than my daughters, conceived in lawful wedlock, have been to me. Get to it, be lustful, sleep aroundI need soldiers for my army. Look at that simpering lady over there. From looking at her face, Id say shes frigid. She pretends to be virtuous and to disdain the word sex, but shes hornier than a passel of rabbits. Women are sex machines below the waist, though theyre chaste up above. Above the waist they belong to God, but the lower part belongs to the devil. Thats where hell is, and darkness, and fires and stench! Death and orgasm! Ah, ah, ah! Give me an aphrodisiac, pharmacist. Let me have sweet dreams. Theres money in it for you."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, let me kiss his hand!"), ("Lear", "Let me wipe it off first. It stinks of death."), ("Gloucester", "A ruined man! This is how the whole world will end up, worn away to nothing. Do you know who I am?"), ("Lear", "I remember your eyes quite well. Are you squinting at me? Go ahead, try to make me fall in love, blind CupidCupid is the blind Greek god of love. He shoots arrows at people to make them fall in love. Cupid. I wont ever love again. Read this letter. Just look at the handwriting."), ("Gloucester", "If every letter on that page were a sun, I couldnt see even one of them."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) I wouldnt believe this if I werent seeing it with my own eyes. Its real, and it breaks my heart."), ("Lear", "Read it."), ("Gloucester", "How? With my eye sockets?"), ("Lear", "Oh ho, is that what youre getting at? You want money before youll read? No eyes in your head til theres money in your wallet? Your eyes are in a bad way, your wallets empty, but you understand the ways of the world."), ("Gloucester", "I do understand, by touch."), ("Lear", "What, are you crazy? You dont need eyes to see how the world works. Look with your ears. Look how the judge yells at a simple thief. Listen. But mix them up, have them switch places, and do you think youd be able to tell which one is which? Have you seen a farmers dog bark at a beggar?"), ("Gloucester", "Yes, sir."), ("Lear", "And you saw how the beggar ran from the mutt? Thats authority! Even a dog is obeyed sometimes. You stupid cop, stop your violence! Why are you whipping that whore? You should be whipping yourself, since you lust after her and yearn to do the same thing for which youre punishing her. One criminal punishes another. Poor mens sins are much more noticeable than rich mens. Cover up a crime with gold and the arm of justice cant touch it. But dress the crime in rags and its caught easily. Everyone sins. You cant blame anyone for it anyone, I say. Ill vouch for that. Believe me, my friend, since I have the power to stop the prosecutors. Get yourself some glass eyes, and pretend to see things you cant, like a crooked politician. Now, now, now, now. Pull off my boots. Harder, harder. Like that."), ("Edgar", "(to himself) Oh, wisdom and absurdity mixed up together! Reason in madness!"), ("Lear", "If you want to cry over my bad luck, Ill give you my eyes. I know you. Your names Gloucester. You have to be patient with me. I came here crying. The first time we see the world as newborns, we cry and scream. Ill read you a sermon. Listen to this."), ("Gloucester", "Oh, how awful!"), ("Lear", "When were born, we cry because weve arrived on the stage of life, like all the other fools. Thats a nice hat youve got there. How ingenious to make horseshoes out of felt. Ill test it out. And when Ive sneaked up on my sons-in-law, then Ill kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!"), ("Gentleman", "(noticing LEAR) Oh, here he is. Grab him. Sir, your most dear daughter"), ("Lear", "What, Im a prisoner? No rescue for me? My luck has always been bad. Treat me well. Theres a ransom. I need a doctor. My brains are injured."), ("Gentleman", "You can have anything you want."), ("Lear", "Will no one back me up? Am I all alone? That would make anyone cry enough to water his garden with his tears."), ("Gentleman", "Good sir"), ("Lear", "Ill die courageouslyShakespeare puns on the idea that orgasm is similar to death, in part because both involve a loss of awareness of the world.courageously, like a well-dressed bridegroom. Okay, Ill be cheery. Im king. Did you know that, gentlemen?"), ("Gentleman", "Youre of royal blood, and we obey you."), ("Lear", "Then theres still a chance. Come and get it! But youll have to catch me! Catch me if you can! Sa, sa, sa, sa."), ("Gentleman", "This is a difficult to see even in a beggar. In a king, the sight is unbearable. He has a daughter good enough to cancel out the wickedness of the other two."), ("Edgar", "Hello, good sir."), ("Gentleman", "How do you do, sir. How can I help you?"), ("Edgar", "Have you heard any news of impending battle?"), ("Gentleman", "Certainly. Everyone who can hear has heard about it."), ("Edgar", "Could you tell me how near the enemy is?"), ("Gentleman", "Very near, and approaching fast. The main body of the army is expected here any hour now."), ("Edgar", "Thank you, sir. Thats all I wanted to know."), ("Gentleman", "The queen is here on special business, and her army has moved on."), ("Edgar", "Thank you, sir."), ("Gloucester", "Gentle gods in heaven, please let me die. Dont tempt me to suicide again."), ("Edgar", "Pray well, father."), ("Gloucester", "And who are you, good sir?"), ("Edgar", "Im a poor man whos been humbled by many misfortunes. Ive had enough sorrow in my life to feel compassion for others. Give me your hand. Ill lead you to some shelter."), ("Gloucester", "Thank you very much. May heaven bless you."), ("Oswald", "What good luck! Ill get the promised reward. That blind head of yours was created to make me rich. You old traitor, repent all your sins. Prepare to die."), ("Gloucester", "Death is exactly what I want. I hope youre strong enough to do it."), ("Oswald", "Whoa, man, you dare to support someone whos been proclaimed a traitor? Get out of here, before his bad luck infects you too. Let go of his arm."), ("Edgar", "Oh no, sir, I wont let him go, sir, not without a good reason."), ("Oswald", "Let go of him, peasant, or you die!"), ("Edgar", "Get on with your business, sir, and leave the poor people alone. If macho talkEdgar speaks with the accent of someone from the west of England here.macho talk like yours could kill me, Id have died weeks ago. No, dont come near the old man. Keep away, Im warning you, or Ill find out whether your head is harder than my walking stick. Im completely serious."), ("Oswald", "Get out of here, you pile of crap."), ("Edgar", "Ill knock your teeth out, sir. To hell with your sword."), ("Oswald", "(falling) You peasant, youve killed me! Villain, take my money. If you survive, make sure I have a decent burial. Give the letters Im carrying to Edmund, Earl of Gloucester. Hes with the English camp. Oh, early death! (he dies)"), ("Edgar", "I know you well. Youre a hardworking villain whod do anything his evil mistress wanted him to."), ("Gloucester", "Is he dead?"), ("Edgar", "Sit down and rest, father. Lets look in his pockets. The letters he spoke of may help me. Hes dead. Im just sorry I had to be the one to kill him. Lets see here. (takes letters out of OSWALDs pocket and opens them) Come on, envelope, open up for me. I know its bad manners, but we kill our enemies to know their secrets. Reading their mail isnt as bad. (reads) Dont forget the vows we made to each other. You have many chances to kill Albany. If you have the strength of will to do it, youll have many opportunities. If he returns in triumph, then all is lost. Ill be his prisoner, and his bed will be my prison. Help me escape him, and you can take his place. YourI wish I could say wifeloving servant, who is ready to love you, Goneril. Is there no limit to womens lust? Shes plotting against the life of her virtuous husband, and wants my brother to replace him! (to the dead OSWALD) Ill bury you here in a shallow grave, you messenger for lustful criminals. In due time Ill show this ugly letter to the duke whose lifes at risk. Its a good thing for him that I can tell him about your death and the letter you were carrying."), ("Gloucester", "The king is insane. I hate the fact that Im sane enough to be aware of my own great suffering. Itd be better to be delirious and unaware of anything. Then my mind would be free of sorrow, and sadness would be forgotten in my hallucinations."), ("Edgar", "Give me your hand. I think I hear the drums far away. Come, father, Ill leave you at a friends house."), ("Cordelia", "Oh, Kent, what could I ever do to become as good as you are? I wont live long enough, and all my efforts will fail me."), ("Kent", "Just being thanked is more than enough for me, madam. I hope all reports about me simply tell the truth, no more or less."), ("Cordelia", "Change into better clothes. These rags will just remind us of those bad times when you had to wear a disguise. Please take them off."), ("Kent", "Im sorry, madam, but I cant do that yet. If people recognize me now, I wont be able to carry out my plans. I have to ask you, as a favor, not to let on that you recognize me until the time is right."), ("Cordelia", "All right, my lord. Hows the king doing?"), ("Doctor", "Hes still sleeping, ma'am."), ("Cordelia", "Kind gods, heal the wounds that hes wrongly suffered! Restore the sanity of this father whose children have driven him mad and changed him into a child again!"), ("Doctor", "Would you mind if we woke up the king? Hes slept a long time."), ("Cordelia", "Do whatever you think best. Is he in his royal garments?"), ("Gentleman", "Yes, ma'am. We changed his clothes while he was fast asleep."), ("Doctor", "Stay close by when we wake him up, ma'am. Im sure he will stay under control."), ("Cordelia", "All right."), ("Doctor", "Please come closer. Make the music louder, please!"), ("Cordelia", "(kisses LEAR) Oh, my dear father, please get better. May my kiss heal the wounds inflicted on you by my sisterswho should have respected and cherished you."), ("Kent", "Kind and dear princess!"), ("Cordelia", "If you hadnt been their father, your white hair would have inspired in them only compassion. Is this a face that should have endured the freezing winds or withstood the dreadful thunder or the terrible lightning? To stay awake all night like a guardsmanpoor lost soul!with only your thinning hair for a helmet? I wouldve let even my enemys nastiest dog stay inside by the fireplace on that night, even if he had bit me. And were you then happy to find shelter on a bed of hay along with swine and homeless bums? Oh, oh! Its a wonder you didnt lose your life and your mind all at once. Hes waking up. Talk to him."), ("Doctor", "You talk to him, ma'am. Thats most appropriate."), ("Cordelia", "How are you, my royal lord? How is your majesty doing?"), ("Lear", "You do me wrong by taking me out of the grave. Youre a soul in heaven, but Im tied to the fiery wheel of a torture machine in hell. Even my tears burn me like molten lead."), ("Cordelia", "Sir, do you know who I am?"), ("Lear", "Youre a spirit, I know. Where did you die?"), ("Cordelia", "(whispering to the DOCTOR) Hes still in outer space."), ("Doctor", "Hes still half asleep. Let him be for a bit."), ("Lear", "Where have I been? Where am I? Is it daytime? Ive been tricked. I would die of pity to see someone else in my condition. I dont know what to say. I cant even be sure these are my hands. Lets see. I feel this pinprick. I wish I knew what is happening."), ("Cordelia", "(kneeling) Look at me, sir, and give me your blessing. No, sir, dont kneel."), ("Lear", "Please dont make fun of me. Im a foolish, senile old man, eighty-something years old, not an hour more or less. To put it plainly, Im afraid Im not quite sane. I feel I should recognize you and that man (he points to KENT), but Im not sure. I dont know where I am. I dont remember these clothes. I cant recall where I slept last night. Dont laugh at me, but I swear I think this lady is my child Cordelia."), ("Cordelia", "And I am, I am."), ("Lear", "Are your tears wet? Yes, indeed they are. Please dont cry. If you have poison for me, Ill drink it. I know you dont love me. If I remember, your sisters did me wrong for no reason. But you didnt, even though you had every reason."), ("Cordelia", "I had no reason, no reason."), ("Lear", "Am I in France?"), ("Kent", "Youre in your own kingdom, sir."), ("Lear", "Dont deceive me."), ("Doctor", "You can relax, ma'am. His insane period is over. But its dangerous to make him try to make sense of the time he lost. Ask him to go in. Dont trouble him further until his mind is more settled."), ("Cordelia", "Would your highness like to take a walk?"), ("Lear", "Youll have to bear with me. Please forgive and forget. Im old and foolish."), ("Gentleman", "Is it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was killed as they say?"), ("Kent", "Yes, its true, sir."), ("Gentleman", "Who is leading his men?"), ("Kent", "They say Gloucesters bastard son is."), ("Gentleman", "I hear that Edgar, Gloucesters exiled son, is with the Earl of Kent in Germany."), ("Kent", "You cant trust all the rumors. Its time to reassess the situation. The British troops are coming near."), ("Gentleman", "It will likely be a bloody fight. Goodbye, sir."), ("Kent", "My life and my plans completely depend on how todays battle ends."), ("Edmund", "(to a gentleman) Go find out from the Duke of Albany if his decision still holds, or if hes changed his mind. Hes always going back and forth and second-guessing himself. Come back and tell me what his final decision is."), ("Regan", "My sisters servant Oswald has certainly run into trouble."), ("Edmund", "Im afraid that may be the case, madam."), ("Regan", "Now, my sweet lord, you know how much I like you. Tell me truthfully, do you love my sister?"), ("Edmund", "Yes, truly and honorably."), ("Regan", "But have you ever gone in my brother-in-laws bed and had sex with her?"), ("Edmund", "No. You dishonor yourself and our relationship by thinking that."), ("Regan", "Im just worried that youve been cozying up to her, and gotten intimate with her."), ("Edmund", "No, I swear on my honor, I havent, madam."), ("Regan", "I cant stand her. Please, my lord, dont be friendly with her."), ("Edmund", "Dont worry about me. Your sister and the duke are here."), ("Goneril", "(to herself) Id rather lose this battle than allow that sister of mine to come between me and Edmund."), ("Albany", "My dear and loving sister-in-law, Im happy to see you. (to EDMUND) Sir, Ive heard that the king has joined up with his daughter as well as others who have complained about our strict policies. Ive never fought for a cause I didnt believe in. Im concerned about the French because they have invaded our soil, not because they support King Lear or those otherswho, Im afraid, may have legitimate grievances against us."), ("Edmund", "Noble words, sir."), ("Regan", "Why are we talking about this?"), ("Goneril", "We must join forces against the enemy. Our domestic squabbles are not the issue here."), ("Albany", "Then lets meet with our senior command and discuss what to do next."), ("Edmund", "Ill meet you at your tent."), ("Regan", "Goneril, are you coming with us?"), ("Goneril", "No."), ("Regan", "Its the best thing to do. Please come with me."), ("Goneril", "(to herself) Oh ho, I know her little tricks. Okay, Ill go."), ("Edgar", "(to ALBANY) If you can stoop to speak to a man as poor as I am, then listen to me, please."), ("Albany", "(to EDMUND, REGAN, and GONERIL exiting) Ill catch up with you. Go ahead."), ("Edgar", "(giving ALBANY a letter) Before you go into battle, open this letter. If you win, then blow your trumpet as a signal for me. I may look wretched, but Ill bravely stand up to defend my claims. If you die in battle, all your projects and this plan are off. Good luck to you."), ("Albany", "Wait until I read the letter."), ("Edgar", "I was ordered not to. When the time comes, tell the herald to blow the trumpet and Ill return."), ("Albany", "Goodbye, then. Ill take a look at your letter."), ("Edmund", "The enemys in sight. Prepare your troops. (gives ALBANY a document) The reconnaissance operation has returned this estimate of the enemys manpower and weaponry. But now, please hurry."), ("Albany", "Well be ready when the time comes."), ("Edmund", "Ive sworn my love to both of these sisters. Theyre jealous of each other like poisonous snakes. Which one of them should I pick? Both? One? Neither? I cant enjoy either of them as long as the other ones alive. Goneril would go crazy if I chose Regan, but it would be hard to get in with Goneril while her husbands still alive. Ill use Albanys power and authority for now to win the war, but afterward one of the sisterswhichever one wants tocan get rid of him. Albany wants to spare Lear and Cordelia, but once they are my prisoners after the battle, they wont stay alive long enough to see his pardon. I have to defend my position with actions, not words."), ("Edgar", "Here, father, rest awhile in the shade of this tree. Say a little prayer for our side in battle. If I ever come back, Ill bring you good news."), ("Gloucester", "Good luck, sir."), ("Edgar", "We have to get out of here, old man. Let me help you up. Lets go! King Lears been defeated. He and his daughter are captured. Give me your hand. Come on."), ("Gloucester", "I cant go any further, sir. This is as good a place as any to die."), ("Edgar", "Are you depressed again? You cant choose your time of death any more than your time of birth. We live and die when our time comes. Come on."), ("Gloucester", "And thats true too."), ("Edmund", "Officers, take them away. Guard them carefully until we decide how to punish them."), ("Cordelia", "(to LEAR) At least were not the first ones in our position. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. But Im worried about you, my poor King. If it were only me, I would just wait out my bad luck. Should we meet with my sisters?"), ("Lear", "No, no, no, no! Come on, lets go to prison. The two of us together will sing like birds in a cage. We will be good to each other. When you ask for my blessing, Ill get down on my knees and ask you to forgive me. Thats how well livewell pray, well sing, well tell old stories, well laugh at pretentious courtiers, well listen to nasty court gossip, well find out whos losing and whos winning, whos in and whos out. Well think about the mysteries of the universe as if we were Gods spies. In prison well outlast hordes of rulers that will come and go as their fortunes change."), ("Edmund", "Take them away."), ("Lear", "My Cordelia, even the gods admire how much youve sacrificed for me. Have I hugged you yet? Anyone who wants to separate us will have to smoke us out of the cave of our togetherness like foxes. Wipe your eyes. Our jailers will shrivel up with old age before they make us cry again. Well watch them starve to death first. Come on."), ("Edmund", "Come here, captain. Listen. (gives the FIRST CAPTAIN a sheet of paper) Take this note. Follow those two to prison and follow these instructions. Ive already promoted you once. If you do as youre told, youll be richly rewarded. Just remember this: you have to go with the times, and these are the times for being tough. A soldier cant afford to be a ninny. Therell be no quibbling about this assignment. Either you accept it, or go find some other way to support yourself."), ("First captain", "Ill do it, sir."), ("Edmund", "Then off you go. When youve finished, youll be a happy man. Go immediately, and do exactly as I wrote down."), ("First captain", "Jobs are hard to come by. I cant pull a cart or eat dried oats like a horse. If its work for a man, Ill do it."), ("Albany", "(to EDMUND) Sir, youve shown your true courage today, and luck was on your side. Youve taken prisoner the leaders of the opposition. I need to take cus- tody of them so I can do whats best out of concern for their honor and the safety of the kingdom."), ("Edmund", "Sir, I decided it was appropriate to send the pathetic old king to a guarded prison cell. His old age and his title make him so popular among the commoners that I was worried our enlisted soldiers would turn against us on his behalf. I sent the French queen with him too, for the same reason. Theyre ready to meet with you tomorrow, or whenever you like, wherever youd like to hold your hearing. These are difficult times. Many have lost friends in battle, and soldiers will curse even a justified war if it causes them pain. We need a more appropriate place to discuss Cordelia and her father."), ("Albany", "Im sorry, sir, but in this war I consider you a subordinate, not my equal."), ("Regan", "Thats for to me to decide. You might have asked my opinion before saying something so rude. Edmund has led our forces well, and implemented my wishesand his close connection with me gives him the right to be considered your equal."), ("Goneril", "Not so fast. He has distinguished himself as a great soldier in his own right, deserving more than any honor your can bestow on him."), ("Regan", "Im the one who gave him his military commission, and it is as my proxy that he fought bravely."), ("Albany", "Hed really be your proxy if he married you."), ("Regan", "Dont joke, it might come true."), ("Goneril", "Whoa, whoa! Youre so infatuated with him that youre hallucinating."), ("Regan", "Hey, lady, if I werent feeling a little sick, Id give you a piece of my mind. (to EDMUND) General, take my soldiers, my prisoners, my whole inheritance, and do as you like with them. I surrender myself to your good judgment. Let the whole world see that I hereby make you my lord and master."), ("Goneril", "Are you trying to sleep with him?"), ("Albany", "(to GONERIL) Its not up to you to say Yes or No."), ("Edmund", "Nor is it up to you, my lord."), ("Albany", "Yes it is, you half-blood."), ("Regan", "(to EDMUND) Let the drums beat. Prove your right to me by defeating any challenger."), ("Albany", "Hang on a second. Listen to me. Edmund, youre under arrest for capital treason. Along with you, your co-conspirator, this snake of a woman. (points at GONERIL. Then, speaking to REGAN) My dear sister-in-law, I veto your marriage announcement for the benefit of my wife, who is already engaged to Edmund. So if you want to get married, youll have to woo me. My wifes already spoken for."), ("Goneril", "What a farce!"), ("Albany", "Youve got a sword, Gloucester. Blow the trumpets. If nobody else comes to challenge you and prove what an abominable traitor you have been, Ill have to challenge you myself. (hethrowsThrowing down a glove was a way of challenging someone to fight.throwsdown his glove) Ill prove soon enough that youre just as wicked as I say you are."), ("Regan", "Oh, Im sick, sick!"), ("Goneril", "(to herself) If shes not ill, Ill never trust drugs again."), ("Edmund", "(throwing down his glove) Youre on. Whoever calls me a traitor is a vicious liar. Blow the trumpet. Anyone who dares to step forward and make that accusationyou or anyone elsego ahead. Ill uphold my truth and my honor."), ("Albany", "A herald!herald=person who reads proclamations aloud.herald! Call a herald!"), ("Edmund", "A herald, a herald!"), ("Albany", "(to EDMUND) Youre on your own now. The soldiers were all drafted in my name, and now they are discharged in my name."), ("Regan", "I feel sicker and sicker."), ("Albany", "Shes not feeling well. Take her to my tent. Come here, herald. Let the trumpet sound! Read this out. (he hands the HERALD a document)"), ("Second captain", "Blow the trumpet!"), ("Herald", "(reads) If any noble man in the army asserts that Edmund, so-called Earl of Gloucester, isa traitor many times over, let him step forward by the third trumpet blast."), ("Edmund", "Sound!"), ("Herald", "Again!"), ("Herald", "Again!"), ("Albany", "(to HERALD) Ask him why hes stepping forward."), ("Herald", "Who are you? Whats your name and rank, and why are you stepping forward?"), ("Edgar", "Ive lost my name and title to a traitor. But Im as noble as my opponent."), ("Albany", "And who is that?"), ("Edgar", "Whos the spokesman for Edmund, Earl of Gloucester?"), ("Edmund", "Im my own spokesman. What do you have to say to me?"), ("Edgar", "Draw your sword. If I offend you by what I say, you can use your sword to take revenge. Heres mine. (he draws his sword) Look at it. Its the symbol of my honor, my rank, and my status as a knight. In spite of your youth, rank, strength, and excellence at warfare, in spite of your courage, your recent victory, and your good luck, I declare that youre a traitor. Youve betrayed your gods, your brother, and your father. Youve plotted against this noble duke. Youre a rotten traitor, through and through, from the top of your head to the soles of your feet. If you disagree with me, Im ready to use this sword and my courage to prove that youre a liar."), ("Edmund", "Normally I would ask you what your name is first. But since you look so fine and noble, and since youre so well mannered in your speech, Im prepared to overlook the rules of knighthood, which say I should refuse to fight a man I dont know. I throw your accusations back in your face. Your lies can hardly hurt me, but Ill still fight you and embed your lies back in your hellish heart. Trumpets, blow!"), ("Albany", "(to EDGAR) Save him, save him!"), ("Goneril", "You were tricked into fighting, Gloucester. According to the laws of war, you didnt have to fight a stranger. You havent lost this fight; youve been tricked and deceived."), ("Albany", "Shut your mouth, woman, or Ill shove this paper in it. Stop, sir. (gives the letter to EDMUND) You despicable criminal, read your crime. (to GONERIL) Dont try to tear it up, madam. I take it you know what this letter says."), ("Goneril", "And what if I do? I make the laws, not you. Who can prosecute me for it?"), ("Albany", "Oh, monstrous! (to EDMUND) Do you know what letter this is?"), ("Edmund", "Dont ask me what I know."), ("Albany", "Follow her. Shes desperate. Make sure she doesnt do anything stupid."), ("Edmund", "Ive done everything you accuse me ofand more, much more. Youll find out everything in due time. Its all over now, and so am I. (to EDGAR) But who are you, you whove managed to defeat me? If youre a nobleman, I forgive you."), ("Edgar", "Lets forgive each other. Im no less noble than you are, Edmund. If Im more noble than you, youve done me wrong. My name is Edgar, and Im your fathers son. The gods are fair, and they use our little vices to punish us. The woman he committed adultery with, your mother, cost him his eyes."), ("Edmund", "Youre right. Thats true. Its all come full circle, and here I am."), ("Albany", "I suspected that you were noble when I saw how you walked. Let me embrace you. I swear I never hated you or your father!"), ("Edgar", "I know, prince."), ("Albany", "Where have you been hiding? How did you know what happened to your poor father?"), ("Edgar", "I knew because I helped nurse him through his suffering. Listen to my little story, and when its done, oh, my heart will break! To escape the decree condemning me to death, I disguised myself as a madman beggar and became a creature despised even by dogs. Oh, how sweet our lives must be if we prefer to die gradually by debasing ourselves rather than dying all at once! In that disguise I met up with my father with bloody sockets where his beautiful eyes used to be. I became his guide, I led him and begged for him, and kept him from suicide. I neveroh, what a mistake!revealed myself to him until half an hour ago, when I was in my armor. With hope in my heart I asked him for his blessing, not sure that hed give it to me. He did. I told him everything that had happened on my journey. But his frail heart, too weak to grapple with such a conflict between joy and sadness, gave out."), ("Edmund", "Your words have moved me, and maybe itll do some good. But go on. You look like you have something more to say."), ("Albany", "If theres anything more sorrowful left to add, keep it to yourself. Im almost ready to break down hearing this much."), ("Edgar", "This may have seemed like the pinnacle of sadness, but if I went on I could outdo it. While I was sobbing loudly, a man came in. He had seen me in my ragged clothes and shunned me, but when he found out who I was, he clasped my neck with his strong arms and cried to high heaven. He threw himself on my father and told the saddest story youve ever heard about Lear and him. As he was telling that story he grieved more and more, until his heart started to break. Then I heard the trumpets blow twice, and left him there in a trance."), ("Albany", "But who was that man?"), ("Edgar", "It was Kent, sir, the exiled Kent, who, after the king treated him like an enemy of the state, put on a disguise and followed his king, carrying out tasks unworthy of even a slave."), ("Second knight", "Help, help, oh, help!"), ("Edgar", "What kind of help do you need?"), ("Albany", "Say something, man!"), ("Edgar", "What is that bloody knife?"), ("Second knight", "Its still warm from the cut. It was just removed from from the heart ofoh, shes dead!"), ("Albany", "Whos dead? Speak, man."), ("Second knight", "Your wife, sir, your wife. And her sisters dead too, poisoned by your wife. She confessed."), ("Edmund", "I was engaged to both of them. All three of us will marry now in death."), ("Edgar", "Here comes Kent."), ("Albany", "(to SECOND KNIGHT) Bring the bodies here, whether theyre alive or dead. We tremble at the gods' wrath, but we dont mourn these deaths. Oh, is that Kent? Theres no time for polite greetings."), ("Kent", "Ive come to say farewell to my king and master. Isnt he here?"), ("Albany", "What an enormous thing for us to forget! Edmund, tell us, wheres the king? And wheres Cordelia? Do you see this, Kent?"), ("Kent", "Oh, why is this so?"), ("Edmund", "Still, Edmund was beloved. One of the sisters poisoned the other out of love for me, and then killed herself."), ("Albany", "Apparently so. Cover their faces."), ("Edmund", "I wish I could live longer. I want to do a little good despite my evil nature. Go quicklyhurryto the castle, for Ive given orders to have Lear and Cordelia killed. Hurry, send someone immediately!"), ("Albany", "Run, run, oh, run!"), ("Edgar", "Whom should we look for in the castle? Whose job is it? Send something along to prove youre withdrawing the orders."), ("Edmund", "Good idea. Take my sword. The captaingive it to the captain."), ("Edgar", "Run as if your life depended on it."), ("Edmund", "My wife and I ordered him to hang Cordelia in prison and then to make it look as if she committed suicide in despair."), ("Albany", "Heaven help her! Get him out of here for now."), ("Lear", "Howl, howl, howl, howl! Oh, you men are made of stone! If I were you with eyes and a tongue to speak with, Id crack heaven wide open with my laments! Shes gone forever. I know how to tell when someone is alive or dead. Shes as dead as the cold ground. Let me borrow a mirror. If her breath steams up the glass, then shes alive."), ("Kent", "Is this doomsday? The end of the world?"), ("Edgar", "Or just a foretaste of it?"), ("Albany", "Let the world collapse around us."), ("Lear", "This feather moved because of her breath. Shes alive. If thats true, it makes up for all the sorrows Ive ever known."), ("Kent", "Oh, my good master!"), ("Lear", "Please, go away."), ("Edgar", "Its noble Kent, your friend."), ("Lear", "Curse you all, youre all murderers and traitors! I could have saved her. Now shes gone forever. Cordelia, Cordelia, stay a while. Ha? What are you saying? Her voice always was so soft and gentle. Thats a good thing in a woman. I killed the scum who was hanging you."), ("Third knight", "Its true, my lords, he did."), ("Lear", "Didnt I? Back in the old days I wouldve made him dance with my sword. But Im old now, and suffering has weakened me. (to KENT) Who are you? My eyesights not the best, Ill tell you straight."), ("Kent", "Were looking at the unluckiest man who ever lived."), ("Lear", "My vision is dull. Arent you Kent?"), ("Kent", "Thats me. Your servant Kent. Wheres your servant CaiusCaius is the name Kent took when he disguised himself and became Lears servant. Caius?"), ("Lear", "Hes a good fellow, I can tell you that much. Not afraid to fight, hes a feisty one. Hes dead and rotting in the dirt now."), ("Kent", "No, my lord, that was me. Im the one who"), ("Lear", "Ill get right on that."), ("Kent", "followed you on your sad wanderings, ever since your bad luck began."), ("Lear", "Nice to see you."), ("Kent", "It was me, no one else. Everything is gloomy, dark, and dreadful. Your eldest daughters destroyed themselves and died in despair."), ("Lear", "Yes, I think thats true."), ("Albany", "He doesnt know what hes saying. Its useless to try to talk to him."), ("Edgar", "Yes, its pointless."), ("Third messenger", "Edmund is dead, my lord."), ("Albany", "That doesnt matter much with everything else thats going on. Gentlemen, I will announce my plans. Ill do everything I can to ease the kings suffering. As for me, Im surrendering all my power over to him, giving him absolute authority for the rest of his life. (to EDGAR and KENT) You will get back your rightful property and titles, along with new honors that you have more than deserved. My friends and allies will be rewarded for their support, and my enemies will get what they deserve. Look, look!"), ("Lear", "And my poor foolLear seems to be talking about Cordelia, using the word fool as an endearment.fool was hanged. No, no, no life left? Why should a dog or horse or rat have life, but not you? Youll never come to me again, never, never, never, never, never. Please help me undo this button. Thank you, sir. Do you see that? Look at her. Look, her lips. Look there, look there. Oh, oh, oh, oh. (he dies)"), ("Edgar", "Hes fainted. My lord, my lord!"), ("Kent", "My heart will break, break."), ("Edgar", "(to LEAR) Look at me, my lord."), ("Kent", "Dont disturb his soul. Let it go up to heaven. His soul would be angry at anyone who tried to keep him in the torture chamber of this life any longer."), ("Edgar", "Oh, hes really gone."), ("Kent", "Whats amazing is how long he lasted. He was living on borrowed time at the end."), ("Albany", "Carry them away. Our business now is mourning and grief. (to KENT and EDGAR) My friends and soulmates, you two will reign over this kingdom and keep the wounded country alive."), ("Kent", "I will have to go on a journey to death soon, sir. My masters calling me. I cant say no."), ("Edgar", "We must remember the gravity of this sad day. We should speak what we feel, not what we ought to say. The oldest one suffered the most. We young ones will never see as much as he has seen, or live as long.")]