[("Antonio", "To be honest, I dont know why Im so sad. Im tired of it, and you say youre tired of it too. But I have no idea how I got so depressed. And if I cant figure out whats making me depressed, I must not understand myself very well."), ("Salarino", "Youre worried about your ships. Your mind is out there getting tossed around on the ocean with them. But theyre fine. Theyre like huge parade floats on the sea. Theyre so big they look down on the smaller ships, which all have to bow and then get out of the way. Your ships fly like birds past those little boats."), ("Solanio", "Yes, believe me, if I had such risky business ventures in other countries, Id be sad too. Id worry about it every second. Id constantly be tossing blades of grass into the air to find out which way the wind was blowing. Id be peering over maps to figure out the best ports, piers, and waterways. Everything that made me worry about my ships would make me sad."), ("Salarino", "Id get scared every time I blew on my soup to cool it, thinking of how a strong wind could wipe out my ships. Every time I glanced at the sand in an hourglass Id imagine my ships wrecked on sandbars. Id think of dangerous rocks every time I went to church and saw the stones it was made of. If my ship brushed up against rocks like that, its whole cargo of spices would be dumped into the sea. All of its silk shipments would be sent flying into the roaring waters. In one moment Id go bankrupt. Who wouldnt get sad thinking about things like that? Its obvious. Antonio is sad because hes so worried about his cargo."), ("Antonio", "No, thats not it, trust me. Thankfully my financial situation is healthy. I dont have all of my money invested in one ship, or one part of the world. If I dont do well this year, Ill still be okay. So its not my business thats making me sad."), ("Solanio", "Well then, you must be in love."), ("Antonio", "Oh, give me a break."), ("Solanio", "Youre not in love either? Fine, lets just say youre sad because youre not in a good mood. You know, itd be just as easy for you to laugh and dance around and say youre in a good mood. You could just say youre not sad. Humans are so different. Some people will laugh at anything, and others are so grouchy they wont even crack a smile when they hear something hysterically funny. Here comes your cousin Bassanio. And Gratiano and Lorenzo too. Goodbye, then. Well leave you to talk to them. Theyre better company."), ("Salarino", "I wouldve stayed to cheer you up, if your nobler friends hadnt shown up."), ("Antonio", "Youre both very precious to me. But I understand. You need to leave to take care of your own business."), ("Salarino", "(to BASSANIO, LORENZO, and GRATIANO) Good morning, gentlemen."), ("Bassanio", "(to SALARINO and SOLANIO) Hello, friends. When are we going to have fun together again? Just name the time. We never see you anymore. Does it have to be that way?"), ("Salarino", "Let us know when you want to get together. Were available."), ("Lorenzo", "Bassanio, well say goodbye for now, since youve found Antonio. But dont forget, were meeting for dinner tonight."), ("Bassanio", "Dont worry, Ill be there."), ("Gratiano", "You dont look well, Antonio. Youre taking things too seriously. People with too much invested in the world always get hurt. Im telling you, you dont look like yourself."), ("Antonio", "For me the world is just the world, Gratianoa stage where every person has a part to play. I play a sad one."), ("Gratiano", "Then Ill play the happy fool and get laugh lines on my face. Id rather overload my liver with wine than starve my heart by denying myself fun. Why should any living man sit still like a statue? Why should he sleep when hes awake? Why should he get ulcers from being crabby all the time? I love you, and Im telling you this because I care about you, Antoniothere are men who always look serious. Their faces never move or show any expression, like stagnant ponds covered with scum. Theyre silent and stern, and they think theyre wise and deep, important and respectable. When they talk, they think everybody else should keep quiet, and that even dogs should stop barking. I know a lot of men like that, Antonio. The only reason theyre considered wise is because they dont say anything. Im sure if they ever opened their mouths, everyone would see what fools they are. Ill talk to you more about this some other time. In the meantime, cheer up. Dont go around looking so glum. Thats my opinion, but what do I know? Im a fool. Lets go, Lorenzo. Goodbye for now. Ill finish my lecture after dinner."), ("Lorenzo", "All right, well see you at dinnertime. I must be one of these silent so-called wise men Gratianos talking about, because he never lets me get a word in."), ("Gratiano", "If you hang around me for two more years, youll forget the sound of your own voice. I wont ever let you speak."), ("Antonio", "Goodbye. After that lecture of yours, Ill start talking a lot."), ("Gratiano", "Thank you. The only tongues that should be silent are ox-tongues on a dinner plate and those that belong to old maids."), ("Antonio", "Is he right?"), ("Bassanio", "Gratiano talks more nonsense than any other man in Venice. His point is always like a needle in a haystackyou look for it all day, and when you find it you realize it wasnt worth the trouble."), ("Antonio", "So, whos this girl, the one you said you were going to take a special trip for? You promised to tell me."), ("Bassanio", "Antonio, you know how bad my finances have been lately. Ive been living way beyond my means. Dont get me wrong, Im not complaining about having to cut back. I just want to be honorable and pay off the big debts that piled up when I was living the high life. Im in debt to many people, and I owe most to you, Antonioboth money and gratitude. And because you care about me, I know youll let me tell you my plan to clear all my debts."), ("Antonio", "Please let me know your plan, Bassanio. As long as its honorable, you can be sure that Ill let you use all my money and do everything I can to help you."), ("Bassanio", "Back when I was a schoolboy, if I lost an arrow I would try to find it by shooting another arrow in the same direction, watching the second arrow more carefully than I had the first. By risking the second arrow, Id often get both of them back. Im telling you this story for a reason. I owe you a lot, and like a spoiled kid Ive lost what I owe you. But if youd be willing to shoot another arrow the same way you shot the first, Ill watch your arrow more carefully this time. Either well get back all the money I owe you, or else well get back what you lend me this time, and Ill just owe you what I already owe you."), ("Antonio", "You know me better than that. Youre wasting your breath. All of this talk means you have doubts about my friendship. Thats worse than if you bankrupted me. Just tell me what to do, and Ill do it. Tell me."), ("Bassanio", "Theres a girl in Belmont whos inherited a huge amount of money, and shes beautiful andeven bettershes a good person. I think she likes me. Sometimes the expression on her face tells me she likes me. Her name is Portia. Shes as rich as that famous Roman heroine Portia, the daughter of Cato and wife of Brutus. Her wealth is world-famous. Famous and important men have come in from all over the world to try to marry her. The hair that hangs down on her forehead is like gold, calling every adventurer to Belmont like a gold rush. Antonio, if I only had enough money to hold my own against those suitors, I know I could win her!"), ("Antonio", "You know right now all my moneys tied up in that cargo thats still at sea. I cant give you the cash you need because I dont have it. But go ahead and charge things to me on credit, as much credit as I can get in Venice. Ill use all my lines of credit to help you get to Belmont, to Portia. Go see who will lend money, and Ill do the same. Im sure I can get something either as a business loan, or as a personal favor."), ("Portia", "Oh Nerissa, my poor little body is tired of this great big world."), ("Nerissa", "Youd be tired, madam, if you had bad luck rather than wealth and good luck. But as far as I can tell, people with too much suffer as much as people with nothing. The best way to be happy is to be in between. When you have too much you get old sooner, but having just enough helps you live longer."), ("Portia", "Good point, and well said."), ("Nerissa", "It would be better if you actually applied it to your life."), ("Portia", "You think its that easy? If doing good deeds were as easy as knowing how to do them, then everyone would be better off. Small chapels would be big churches, and poor mens cottages would be princes' palaces. It takes a good priest to practice what he preaches. For me, its easier to lecture twenty people on how to be good than to be the one person out of twenty who actually does good things. The brain can tell the heart what to do, but what does it matter? Cold rules dont matter when youve got a hot temper. Young people are like frisky young rabbits, and good advice is like a crippled old man trying to catch them. But thinking like this wont help me choose a husband. Oh, the word choose is strange! I cant choose who I like, or refuse who I dislike. Im a living daughter still controlled by the wishes of her dead father. Isnt it a pain that I cant choose or refuse anyone, Nerissa?"), ("Nerissa", "Your father was an extremely moral man, and religious people get odd ideas on their deathbeds. Your fathers idea was to have a game with three boxes. The suitor who can figure out whether to pick the gold, silver, or lead box will solve your fathers riddleand that suitors the man for you. No one will ever choose the right box who doesnt deserve your love. But tell me. Do you like any of the princely suitors whove come?"), ("Portia", "Run through the list. As you name them Ill describe them for you, and from my descriptions you can guess how I feel toward them."), ("Nerissa", "Well, first there was the prince from Naples."), ("Portia", "Ah, yes, that stallion. All he talks about is his horse. He thinks its a great credit to his character that he can shoe a horse all by himself. Im afraid his mother may have had an affair with a blacksmith."), ("Nerissa", "Then theres the Count Palatine."), ("Portia", "He does nothing but frown, as if he wants to say, If you dont want me, I dont care. He doesnt even smile when he hears funny stories. If hes so sad and solemn when hes young, I can only imagine how much hell cry as an old man. No, Id rather be married to a skull with a bone in its mouth than to either of those men. God protect me from these two!"), ("Nerissa", "What did you think about that French lord, Monsieur le Bon?"), ("Portia", "We might as well call him a man, since God created him. No, I know its bad to make fun of people, but still! His horse is better than the Neapolitans and he frowns more than the Count Palatine. He was trying to outdo everyone so much that you couldnt tell who he was. He started dancing every time a bird sang, and he was so eager to show off his fencing that hed fight with his own shadow. If I married him, I might as well as marry twenty husbands, because hes like twenty men all rolled into one! Id understand it if he hated me, since even if he loved me desperately, Id never be able to love him back."), ("Nerissa", "What about Falconbridge, that young English baron?"), ("Portia", "I have no opinion about him. We dont talk because we dont understand each other. He doesnt speak Latin, French, or Italian, and you know how little English I speak. Hes great-looking, but how can you talk to someone who doesnt speak your language? He was dressed so oddly too! I think he got his jacket in Italy, his tights in France, his hat in Germany, and his behavior everywhere."), ("Nerissa", "What do you think of his neighbor, the Scottish lord?"), ("Portia", "I think hes very forgiving, since he let the Englishman slap him on the ear without hitting him back. Rather than defend himself, he just threatened to pay the Englishman back later. Then the Frenchman promised to help the Scot pay the Englishman back, and added a slap of his own."), ("Nerissa", "How did you like the young German, the duke of Saxonys nephew?"), ("Portia", "Hes pretty awful in the morning when hes sobering up, and even worse in the afternoon when hes drunk. At his best hes a little less than a man, and at his worst hes little more than an animal. If we got married and he tragically met his demise, Im sure I could find a way to go on without him."), ("Nerissa", "If he offers to play the game and chooses the right box, but then you reject him, youll be disobeying your fathers last wishes."), ("Portia", "I know. So please put a nice big glass of white wine on the wrong box. I know hell get tempted and choose that one. Ill do anything rather than marry a drunk, Nerissa."), ("Nerissa", "You dont have to worry about any of these lords, my lady. Theyve all told me what they want, which is to go back home and give up on youunless there was some other way to win you than your fathers pick-the-box test."), ("Portia", "Ill die an old maid unless I can be won according to the rules set by my fathers will. Im glad these suitors are sensible enough to stay away. The only thing I like about them is that theyre not there. I wish them all safe trips home."), ("Nerissa", "Do you remember a Venetian scholar and soldier who accompanied the marquess of Montferrat here once when your father was still alive?"), ("Portia", "Yes, yes, that was Bassanio. I think that was his name."), ("Nerissa", "Yes, madam, thats the one. He deserves a beautiful wife more than all the other men Ive ever seen."), ("Portia", "I remember him well, and my memory tells me that he deserves your praise. Hello, do you have any news?"), ("Servant", "The four suitors are looking for you so they can say goodbye, madam. And theres a messenger representing a fifth one, the prince of Morocco, who says the prince will be here tonight."), ("Portia", "If I could say hello to the fifth one as happily as Ill say goodbye to the first four, Id be very happy hes coming. If hes as good as a saint but is black like a devil, Id rather he hear my confession than marry me. Lets go, Nerissa.(to the SERVANT) Go ahead. As soon as we shut the door on one suitor, another one starts knocking."), ("Shylock", "Three thousand ducats, hmmm."), ("Bassanio", "Yes, for three months."), ("Shylock", "For three months, hmmm."), ("Bassanio", "As I said before, Antonio will guarantee the loan. If I default, hell pay you."), ("Shylock", "Antonio will guarantee it, hmmm."), ("Bassanio", "Can you help me? Whats your answer?"), ("Shylock", "Three thousand ducats for three months, and Antonio will guarantee it."), ("Bassanio", "Your answer?"), ("Shylock", "Antonios a good man."), ("Bassanio", "Have you heard anything to the contrary?"), ("Shylock", "What? No, no, no, no. What I meant in saying hes a good man is that he has enough money to guarantee the loan. But his investments are uncertain right now. He has one ship bound for Tripoli, another heading for the Indies. Whats more, people at the RialtoThe Rialto is the business district of Venice, where the merchants meet. Rialto tell me he has a third ship in Mexico, and a fourth in England, as well as other business ventures throughout the world. But ships are just fragile boards, and sailors are just men. There are rats and thieves and piratesnot to mention storms, winds, and rocks. Anything could happen. But in spite of all this, the man is still wealthy enough. Three thousand ducatsI think I can let him guarantee your loan."), ("Bassanio", "I assure you he can."), ("Shylock", "I will be sure he can, before I make the loan. And Ill think of a way to be sure. Can I speak with Antonio?"), ("Bassanio", "If you like, you can dine with us. Oh yesto smell porkAny meat from pigs (like pork or bacon) is forbidden by Jewish dietary law.pork ? I dont think so!. Your prophet Jesus sent the devil into a herd of pigs. Im not going to eat that. Ill buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so on, but I wont eat with you, drink with you, or pray with you. Any news on the Rialto? Whos that?"), ("Bassanio", "This is Signor Antonio."), ("Shylock", "(to himself) He looks just like a guy whos robbed me but now comes to beg me for a favor! I hate him because hes a Christian. But more than that, I hate him because he stupidly lends money without interest, which lowers the interest rates here in Venice. If I can just get the upper hand of him once, Ill satisfy my old grudge against him. He hates Jews. Even at the Rialto hes always complaining about me and my negotiating and my hard-earned profits, which he calls interest. It would an insult to Jews everywhere to forgive that man!"), ("Bassanio", "Shylock, are you listening?"), ("Shylock", "Im thinking about how much cash I have on hand. If I remember correctly, I cant raise the entire three thousand ducats immediately. But so what? Tubal, a wealthy Jew I know, will supply me with the cash. But wait a minute! How many months do you want? (to ANTONIO) Oh, hello, how are you, signor? We were just talking about you."), ("Antonio", "Shylock, although I never lend or borrow with interest, Im willing to break that habit to help a friend in need. (to BASSANIO) Does he know how much you need?"), ("Shylock", "Oh yes, three thousand ducats."), ("Antonio", "For three months."), ("Shylock", "Yes, I forgotthree months. (to BASSANIO) You told me that. (to ANTONIO) Now then, about your guarantee. Let me seebut listen, Antonio, I thought you said you dont lend or borrow with interest."), ("Antonio", "Thats right. Thats not how I do business."), ("Shylock", "When Jacob took care of his uncle Labans sheepJacob was the heir to his grandfather Abrahams birthright, because his mother cleverly arranged for her husband Isaac to make Jacob his heir"), ("Antonio", "Whats your point? Did he charge interest?"), ("Shylock", "No, he didnt charge interestShylock uses a story of Jacob from Genesis 30:2543 to defend his practice of charging interest.charge interestnot in your sense of the word. But listen to what Jacob did. When he and Laban agreed that all the spotted lambs would be Jacobs pay, it was the end of autumn, when the sheep were starting to mate. Because newborns look like whatever their mother sees during mating, he stuck some spotted branches into the ground right in front of the sheep, who saw them while they mated. The mothers later gave birth to spotted lambs, all of which went to Jacob. That was his way of expanding his business, and it worked. My point is that profit is a blessing, as long as you dont steal to get it."), ("Antonio", "That business venture youre referring to happened because God made it happen like that. Jacob didnt have any control over what happened. Are you saying this story proves that charging interest makes sense? That your interest payments are like Jacobs sheep?"), ("Shylock", "I can hardly tell the difference; I make my money multiply as fast as those sheep. But listen to me, signor"), ("Antonio", "Watch out, Bassanio. The devil can quote Scripture for his own use. An evil soul using a holy story is like a criminal who smiles at you. He looks like a good apple but hes rotten at the core. Oh, liars can look so honest!"), ("Shylock", "Three thousand ducats. Thats a nice even sum. Three months from twelve months of the year. Let me see. The interest rate will be"), ("Antonio", "Well, Shylock? Are you going to loan us the money?"), ("Shylock", "Signor Antonio, youve often insulted my money and my business practices in the Rialto. I have always just shrugged and put up with it because Jews are good at suffering. You called me a heathen, a dirty dog, and you spit on my Jewish clothes. And all because I use my own money to make a profit. And now it looks like you need my help. All right then. You come to me saying, Shylock, we need money. You say that!even though you spat on my beard and kicked me like youd kick a stray mutt out your front door. And now youre asking for money. What can I tell you? Shouldnt I say, Does a dog have money? Is it possible for a mutt to lend three thousand ducats? Or should I bend down low, and in a humble and submissive voice say: Sir, last Wednesday you spit on me. You insulted me on this day, and another time you called me a dog. And out of gratitude for these favors, Ill be happy to lend you the money?"), ("Antonio", "Ill probably call you those names again and spit on you, and reject you again too. If youre going to lend us this money, dont lend it to us as if we were your friends. When did friends charge interest? Instead, lend it to me as your enemy. If your enemy goes bankrupt, its easier for you to take your penalty from him."), ("Shylock", "Look at you getting all riled up! I want to be friends with you, and forget all the times youve embarrassed and humiliated me. I want to give you what you need, and not charge a penny of interestbut you wont listen to me! Im making a kind offerzero percent financing."), ("Bassanio", "That really would be kind."), ("Shylock", "Ill show you how kind I am. Come with me to a notary and well make it official. And lets add a little clause just for a joke. If you dont repay me on the day we agree on, in the place we name, for the sum of money fixed in our contract, your penalty will be a pound of your pretty flesh, to be cut off and taken out of whatever part of your body I like."), ("Antonio", "Its a deal. Ill agree to those terms and even say that Jews are nice."), ("Bassanio", "No, you cant sign a contract like that for me! Id rather go without the money."), ("Antonio", "Dont worry about it, man, I wont have to pay any penalty. In two monthsa month before this loan is dueI expect to earn more than three times that much from my investments."), ("Shylock", "Oh father Abraham, what kind of people are these Christians? Their own meanness teaches them to suspect other people! Please tell me this. If he fails to repay me by the deadline, what would I get out of such a penalty? A pound of human flesh taken isnt even as valuable as a pound of mutton or beef. Im just offering this as a favor to a friend. If he agrees, great. If not, goodbye. And I hope you wont think badly of me."), ("Antonio", "Yes, Shylock, Ill sign the contract and agree to its terms."), ("Shylock", "Then meet me right away at the notarys. Give him the instructions for our amusing little contract, and Ill go get the money for you right away. I need to check in at home first, because one of my careless servants is in charge right now. Ill see you soon."), ("Antonio", "Hurry up, my Jewish friend. Hes so kind youd think the Jew is turning Christian."), ("Bassanio", "I dont like it when a villain acts nice."), ("Antonio", "Come on, theres no reason to worry. My ships will come home a month before the money is due."), ("Morocco", "Dont hold my skin color against me. I was born and raised in the sun, which is why Im dark-skinned. But Im as red-blooded as any man. Show me the best-looking person born in the freezing north, where the sun barely thaws the icicles. Ill win your love by cutting myself to prove to you I have redder blood than he does. Im telling you, madam, my skin color has made brave men fear me and Moroccan girls love me. I wouldnt change it except to make you think of me, my darling queen."), ("Portia", "Being good-looking isnt the only way to my heart, you know. I have other criteria for choosing a husband. Not that it matters, because the box test takes away my free choice anyway. But if my father hadnt restricted me like thisforcing me to marry whoever wins his testthen youd have had as good a chance to marry me as any of the suitors Ive met so far, prince."), ("Morocco", "Thank you for saying that. Show me the caskets and let me try my luck. I swear by my sword, which killed the Shah of Persia and a Persian prince and defeated the Sultan Suleiman three times, that I would face the meanest-looking warriors on earth. I would act braver than the bravest man on earth. I would grab bear cubs from a ferocious mother bear, or tease a hungry lionall of this in order to win your love, lady. But this is bad! If the hero Hercules and his servant Lychas rolled the dice, which would win? Not the greater hero. Just the one who happened to be luckier that time. And just as Hercules could be beaten by his servant, blind luck could make me lose this test and make someone worse than me win. If that happened, Id die of sadness."), ("Portia", "You have to take your chances. Either dont choose at all, or swear beforehand that if you choose incorrectly youll never talk about marriage to any woman again. Think about it carefully."), ("Morocco", "Fine, I swear I wont ever get married if I choose incorrectly. Let me take my chances."), ("Portia", "Lets go to the temple first. You can take your chances after dinner. Ill try my luck then. Ill either be the luckiest or the unluckiest man alive."), ("Launcelot", "Im sure Ill feel guilty if I run away from this Jew, my master. The devils on my shoulder, tempting me. Hes saying, Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, Good Launcelot, or Good Gobbo, or Good Launcelot Gobbouse your legs and run away. But my conscience says, No, Launcelot, calm down, dont run away. The devils urging me to leave. Go away! he says. Run away! Be tough, says the devil, and run! But then my conscience, hanging around my heart, says very wisely to me, My good friend Launcelot, youre a good boy, the son of an honest man, really, that should be the son of an honest woman, since my father cheated on my mother. Anyway, my conscience says, Stay put. Go, the devil says. Dont go, says my conscience. Conscience, I say, you give good advice. Devil, I say, you give good advice. If I listened to my conscience, Id stay with the Jew my master, whos a devil. But if I ran away from the Jew, Id be following the advice of the devil, whos the very devil himself. Certainly the Jew is the devil incarnate, and my conscience is giving me a hard time by telling me to stay with the Jew. The devils advice is nicer. Ill run, devil. Tell me to run, and Ill run."), ("Gobbo", "Excuse me, young man, how do I get to the Jews residence?"), ("Launcelot", "(to himself) Good heavens, its my father. He doesnt recognize me because hes half-blindor more than half-blind, somewhere between half-blind and totally blind. Ill play a little game with him."), ("Gobbo", "Young man, excuse me, how do I get to the Jews?"), ("Launcelot", "Turn right at the next turn, but at the following turn, turn left. Oh, and then at the very next turn, dont turn left or right, but turn down and around to the Jews house."), ("Gobbo", "Good heavens, those are difficult directions. Can you tell me if a man named Launcelot, who lives with him, is still there?"), ("Launcelot", "Are you talking about young Master Launcelot? (speaking so no one else can hear) Watch out, Im going to pull a good prank here. Is that who youre talking about?"), ("Gobbo", "Hes not a master, sir, hes just a poor mans son. His father, if I do say so myself, is an honest but very poor man, and, thank God, likely to live a long time."), ("Launcelot", "Well, his father can be whatever he wants to be. Were talking about young Master Launcelot."), ("Gobbo", "Please dont call him that, sir. Hes just Launcelot."), ("Launcelot", "But excuse me, ergo, old man, ergo, Im asking you if youre talking about young Master Launcelot."), ("Gobbo", "Yes, Im talking about Launcelot, sir."), ("Launcelot", "ErgoErgo means therefore in Latin. Launcelot is using the word to prove hes an educated gentleman but seems to have no idea what it means. Ergo , Master Launcelot. But please dont talk about Master Launcelot, old man. The young gentleman, submitting to the fates, the three sisters who control destiny, and other branches of learning like that, is deceased. Or, to put it in plain language, hes gone to heaven."), ("Gobbo", "Oh, no. God forbid! The boy was going to support me in my old age!"), ("Launcelot", "What am I, a cane? How could I support anyone? Dont you recognize me, father?"), ("Gobbo", "Heaven help me, I dont know you, sir. But please tell me, is my boyGod rest his soulalive or dead?"), ("Launcelot", "You really dont recognize me, father?"), ("Gobbo", "Sir, Im half-blind. I dont know you."), ("Launcelot", "Even if you had your eyes, you still might not recognize me. It takes a wise father to know his own child. Well, old man, Ill tell you news of your son. Give me your blessing. The truth will come to light, and murder cant be hidden longa mans son may hide, but truth will always come out."), ("Gobbo", "Please stand up! Im sure you arent Launcelot, my boy."), ("Launcelot", "Come on, quit fooling around. Give me your blessing. Im Launcelot, who was your boy, is your son, and will be your child."), ("Gobbo", "I cant believe youre my son."), ("Launcelot", "I dont know what to say to that, but the fact is Im Launcelot, the Jews servant, and Margery, your wife, is my mother."), ("Gobbo", "Yes, youre right, her name is Margery. If youre Launcelot, then youre my own flesh and blood. (feels the back of LAUNCELOTs head) My Lord, what a bushy beard you have! Youve got more hair on your chin than Dobbin my horse has in his tail."), ("Launcelot", "Then Dobbins tail must be growing backward. Im sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw him."), ("Gobbo", "Lord, how youve changed! How are you and your master getting along? Ive brought him a present. How are you?"), ("Launcelot", "Im all right. But Ive decided to run away, and I cant wait to get going. My masters a total Jew. Youre giving him a present? Give him a noose to hang himself. Hes starving me to death. You can see my ribs so well you can count them. Im glad youve come, father. Give me your present to give to Master Bassanio. He gives his servants beautiful new uniforms. If I cant get a job with him, Ill run away to the ends of the earth. Oh look, this is lucky, here comes Master Bassanio now. Lets go talk to him, Father. If I work for the JewLauncelot uses the word Jew as a term of abuse here. Jew any longer, you can just call me a Jew."), ("Bassanio", "(to an attendant) All right, go ahead. But do everything quickly. Supper must be ready at five at the latest. Make sure these letters get delivered, get the uniforms made, and tell Gratiano to come visit me soon."), ("Launcelot", "Go talk to him, father."), ("Gobbo", "(to BASSANIO) God bless you, sir!"), ("Bassanio", "Thank you. What do you want with me?"), ("Gobbo", "This is my son, sir. Hes a poor boy"), ("Launcelot", "Not a poor boy, but the rich Jews servant, who wants, as my father will explain"), ("Gobbo", "He wants very much, sir, as one might say, to work for"), ("Launcelot", "To put it briefly, I work for the Jew, and I want, as my father will tell you"), ("Gobbo", "He and his master arent exactly friends"), ("Launcelot", "To be brief, the truth is that the Jew has done me wrong, and that forces me toas my father, an old man, will inform you"), ("Gobbo", "I have a present Id like to give you, sir. And I want to request that"), ("Launcelot", "To make a long story short, the request is about me, as this good old man will tell you. Even though Im his son and Im the one saying it, this old man is a poor man"), ("Bassanio", "One of you do the talking. What do you want?"), ("Launcelot", "To work for you, sir."), ("Gobbo", "Thats what were trying to say, sir."), ("Bassanio", "I know who you are. You can have what you want. I spoke with your master Shylock today, and he recommended you to me. If you want to leave a rich Jew to work for a poor gentleman, youre welcome to."), ("Launcelot", "Do you know the old proverb The grace of God is enough, sir? It could be divided between you and my boss Shylockyou have the grace of God, and he has enough."), ("Bassanio", "Nicely put. Go with your son, old man. Say goodbye to your old master and find your way to my house. (to attendants) Give him a uniform thats a little nicer than the others. Make sure it gets done."), ("Launcelot", "Father, go ahead. I cant get a job, can I? I cant talk well, no. (reading his own palm) If any man in Italy has a palm good enough to swear on a Bible with, its me. Ive got very good luck! Heres my life line. It shows a few wivesfifteen wives is nothing. Eleven widows and nine maids is a humble beginning for one man. It seems Ill almost drown three times, and my life will be in danger when Im caught in bed with another mans wife! But these little lines are the escape routes I can take to get out of that one. If lucks a lady, shes good at this business. Father, lets go. Ill leave the Jew behind in the blink of an eye."), ("Bassanio", "Please, Leonardo, think about this (he hands him a piece of paper). These things have been bought and are ready. Hurry back here. Im having dinner tonight with someone I greatly respect. Go now."), ("Leonardo", "Ill do my best."), ("Gratiano", "(to LEONARDO) Wheres your master?"), ("Leonardo", "Hes walking over there, sir."), ("Gratiano", "Signor Bassanio!"), ("Bassanio", "Gratiano!"), ("Gratiano", "I have a favor to ask."), ("Bassanio", "Anything."), ("Gratiano", "Dont say no. Let me go with you to Belmont."), ("Bassanio", "Well, if you have to go, you have to go. But listen to me, Gratiano. Sometimes you get a bit too wild, and you let your voice get a bit loud and rude. These things look good on you, of course, and to people like you and me theres nothing wrong with it. But in places where people dont know you, your behavior might seem too wild. Please, try to act a little more serious, or the people in Belmont will get the wrong impression about me, and your wildness will make me blow my chance with Portia."), ("Gratiano", "Listen, Signor Bassanio, theres nothing to worry about. Ill be solemn-looking, Ill talk with respect, and Ill only swear once in a while. Ill carry prayer books in my pocket and look sweeteven more. While grace is being said, Ill be modest and say amenIll watch my manners as if Im trying to please my grandma. If I dont do all this, never trust me again."), ("Bassanio", "Well, well see how you act."), ("Gratiano", "Okay, but tonight doesnt count. You cant judge me based on what I do tonight."), ("Bassanio", "No, itd be a shame for you to act serious tonight. Id rather see you having fun, because we have friends coming who want to have fun. Anyway, I have to say goodbye to you now. Ive got some business to take care of."), ("Gratiano", "I have to join Lorenzo and the others, but well visit you at supper time."), ("Jessica", "Im sorry youre leaving my father like this. Its hell in our house, and you helped cheer it up, like a funny devil. But goodbye. Heres a ducat for you. Youll soon be meeting Lorenzo at supper; hell be a guest of your new master. Give him this letter. (gives LAUNCELOT a letter) Do it secretly. Goodbye. I dont want my father to see me talking to you."), ("Launcelot", "Goodbye. My tears show you my feelings, my beautiful pagan, my sweet Jew! Im sure some Christian will resort to trickery to get you. But goodbye. Its not manly to cry. Goodbye."), ("Jessica", "Goodbye, Launcelot. Oh God, what a heinous sinner I am, being ashamed to be my fathers child! But I need to remember Im related to him by blood, not behavior. Oh Lorenzo, if you keep your promise to me, Ill end this agony by becoming a Christian and marrying you."), ("Lorenzo", "No, well sneak away at supper time, disguise ourselves with masks at my house, and come back in an hour."), ("Gratiano", "But we havent made any preparations."), ("Salarino", "We havent even talked about wholl be our torchbearers."), ("Solanio", "The masquerade party might turn out terribly if we dont manage things carefully. I think its better to call it off."), ("Lorenzo", "Its only four o'clock now. We have two hours to get ready. Launcelot, whats going on?"), ("Launcelot", "(he gives LORENZO the letter) If you dont mind opening this letter, you can find out for yourself."), ("Lorenzo", "I recognize the handwriting. Its beautiful handwriting. And the beautiful hand that wrote this letter is whiter than the paper its written on."), ("Gratiano", "I bet its a love letter!"), ("Launcelot", "(to LORENZO) May I be excused, sir?"), ("Lorenzo", "Where are you going?"), ("Launcelot", "To invite my former boss, the Jew, to dine tonight with my new master, the Christian."), ("Lorenzo", "(he gives LAUNCELOT money) Hold on, take this. Tell Jessica I wont fail her. Tell her in private. Go, gentlemen, get ready for the masquerade tonight. I have someone who can be my torchbearer."), ("Salarino", "All right, Ill go get things ready."), ("Solanio", "Me too."), ("Lorenzo", "Meet me and Gratiano at his house in about an hour."), ("Salarino", "Its good were doing this."), ("Gratiano", "Wasnt that letter from Jessica?"), ("Lorenzo", "I have to tell you everything. Shes told me how I can get her out of her fathers house. Shes also told me what gold and jewels she owns, and shes described the pagesA page is a young male servant.pages uniform shes keeping to wear as a disguise. If her father ever goes to heaven, itll be because his daughters so good. Shell never be punished with bad luckunless its because her father is an unbelieving Jew. Come with me. (gives GRATIANO the letter) You can look this letter over as you go. Beautiful Jessica will be my torchbearer."), ("Shylock", "Well, youll see it with your own eyes. Youll see the difference between working for Shylock and working for Bassanio.(calling for his daughter) Jessica! You wont eat like a pig like you used to do at my place. Jessica! And sleep, and snore, and wear your clothes out. Jessica, Im calling you!"), ("Launcelot", "Jessica!"), ("Shylock", "Who asked you to call her? Im not asking you to call her."), ("Launcelot", "You always loved to tell me I couldnt do anything without being told."), ("Jessica", "Did you call me? Do you need something?"), ("Shylock", "Ive been invited to supper, Jessica. Here are my keys. But why should I go? I wasnt invited because they like me. Theyre just flattering me. But Ill go out of spite, to feed off the wasteful Christian. Jessica, my girl, watch the house. I dont feel like going. Things arent going my way right now. I know because I dreamed of money bags last night."), ("Launcelot", "Please go, sir. My new master is expecting your approach."), ("Shylock", "And Im expecting his reproach."), ("Launcelot", "And theyve been plotting things together. Im not saying youll get a masquerade party, but if you do, I predicted it. I knew there would be a masquerade when I got that bad omen of a bloody nose last Easter Monday, at six in the morning, four years after I got the same kind of bloody nose on Ash Wednesday, in the afternoon."), ("Shylock", "What, theres going to be a masquerade? Listen to me, Jessica, lock my doors up, and when you hear the drum and the nasty squealing of the flute, dont climb up to the windows. Dont stick your head out into the public street to stare at the Christian fools with painted faces. Block up my houses earsI mean the windows. Dont let the noise of shallow fools enter my serious house. I swear, Im in no mood to go out to dinner tonight, but Ill go anyway. Launcelot, go tell them Ill come."), ("Launcelot", "Ill go ahead of you, sir. (to JESSICA) Mistress, be on the lookout when youre staring out the window. A Christians coming wholl be worth a Jewesss glance."), ("Shylock", "What did that gentile fool say to you, hmmm?"), ("Jessica", "He said Goodbye, madam, and nothing else."), ("Shylock", "The fools nice enough, but hes such a huge eater, and slow as a snail when he works. He sleeps all day like a cat. Bees that dont work cant stay in my hive, so Im letting him go, handing him off so he can waste money for his new boss, the man who borrowed money from me. Anyway, Jessica, go inside. I might come back soon. Do as I told you. Shut the doors after you. As the saying goes, lock things up, and youll get to keep them."), ("Jessica", "Goodbye. If lucks with me, Ill lose a father, and youll lose a daughter."), ("Gratiano", "This is the roof under which Lorenzo said to meet him."), ("Salarino", "Hes late."), ("Gratiano", "Yes, and thats surprising, because lovers are usually early."), ("Salarino", "Yes, for new lovers time passes ten times faster than for couples whove been married forever."), ("Gratiano", "Thats always true. Who gets up from a meal with the same appetite he had when he sat down? Can any horse retrace his footsteps with the same energy he had when he walked them the first time? We chase everything in life more excitedly than we actually enjoy it when we get it. Its like when a ship sails out of the harbor with all its flags waving, gently pushed by the wind. When that ship returns, her timber is all weather-beaten and her sails are ragged. That same wind makes the ship thin and poor."), ("Salarino", "Here comes Lorenzo. Well talk about this later."), ("Lorenzo", "My dear friends, thanks for your patience. I had business that made me late. When you have to steal your own wives some day, Ill wait for you just as long. Come over here. My future father-in-law, the Jew, lives here. Hey! Whos in there?"), ("Jessica", "Who are you? Tell me so I can be sure, though I swear I recognize your voice."), ("Lorenzo", "Im Lorenzo, your love."), ("Jessica", "Lorenzo, thats for sure, and Im also sure youre my lovewho else do I love so much? And now who but you knows whether Im yours?"), ("Lorenzo", "As God is my witness, you know youre mine."), ("Jessica", "Here, catch this box. Itll be worth your while. Im glad its nighttime and you cant see me. Im ashamed of my disguise. But love is blind, and lovers cant see the silly things they do around each other. If they could, Cupid himself would be embarassed to see me dressed up as a boy."), ("Lorenzo", "Come down here. You have to be my torchbearer for the masquerade."), ("Jessica", "What, I have to hold a candle up so people can see what Im doing? The truth is, Im behaving like a loose woman. The torchbearer is supposed to bring light and love, but I should be hidden away in the dark."), ("Lorenzo", "Youre hidden away, sweetheart, dressed up like a boy. Come on quickly. Time flies at night, and were late for Bassanios feast."), ("Jessica", "Ill lock up the doors, grab some more ducats, and be with you right away."), ("Gratiano", "My God, she cant be a Jew, shes too nice!"), ("Lorenzo", "God, Im crazy about her. Shes wise, if Im judging her right. Shes beautiful, if my eyes can see. And shes loyal, as she has proven. And as long as shes herselfwise, beautiful, and faithfulshell always have a place in my heart. Ah, youre here? Come on, gentlemen, lets go! Our masquerade mates are waiting for us."), ("Antonio", "Whos there?"), ("Gratiano", "Signor Antonio?"), ("Antonio", "Gratiano, where is everybody? Its nine o'clock! Our friends are all waiting for you. Theres no masquerade tonight. The wind is blowing right, so Bassanios going onboard immediately. Ive sent twenty people to look for you."), ("Gratiano", "Im glad. I want to head out tonight."), ("Portia", "(to servant) Go open the curtains and show the different boxes to the prince. A curtain is drawn revealing showing three caskets: one gold, one silver, and one lead. (to MOROCCO) Now make your choice."), ("Morocco", "The first one, the gold one, has an inscription that says, He who chooses me will get what many men want. The second one, the silver one, says, He who chooses me will get what he deserves. And this third one is made of dull lead. It has a blunt warning that says, He who chooses me must give and risk all he has. How will I know if I chose the right one?"), ("Portia", "One of them contains my picture. If you choose that one, Im yours, along with the picture."), ("Morocco", "I wish some god could help me choose! Let me see. Ill look over the inscriptions again. What does the lead box say? He who chooses me must give and risk all he has. Must give everythingfor what? For lead? Risk everything for lead? This box is too threatening. Men who risk everything hope to make profits. A golden mind doesnt bend down to choose something worthless. So I wont give or risk anything for lead. What does the silver one say? He who chooses me will get as much as he deserves. As much as he deserveswait a minute there, Morocco, and consider your own value with a level head. If your reputation is trustworthy, you deserve a lotthough maybe not enough to include this lady. But fearing I dont deserve her is a way of underestimating myself. As much as I deserveI deserve Portia! By birth I deserve her. In terms of wealth, talents, and upbringing, and especially love, I deserve her. What if I went no further and chose this one? But lets see once more what the gold one says: He who chooses me will get what many men want. Thats Portia! The whole world wants her. They come from the four corners of the earth to kiss this shrine and see this living, breathing saint. Princes travel across deserts and the vast wilderness of Arabia to come see the beautiful Portia. The wide ocean doesnt prevent them from coming to see herthey travel across it as if it were a little stream. One of these three boxes contains her lovely picture. Could the lead one contain it? No, itd be a sin to think such a low thought. Leads too crass to hold her. Is she enclosed in silver, which is ten times less valuable than gold? Oh, what a sinful thought! Nobody ever set a gem like her in a worse setting than gold. They have a coin in England stamped with the figure of an angel, but thats just engraved on the surface. Here an angels lying in a golden bed. Give me the key. I will choose this one and try my chances."), ("Portia", "(she hands him a key) There, take it, prince. And if my pictures in there, then Im yours."), ("Morocco", "Damn it! Whats this? Its a skull with a scroll in its empty eye socket. Ill read it aloud. (he reads) All that glitters is not gold Youve often heard that said. Many men have sold their souls Just to view my shiny surface. But gilded tombs contain worms. If youd been as wise as you were bold, With an old mans mature judgment, You wouldnt have had to read this scroll. So goodbyeyou lost your chance. Lost my chance indeed! So goodbye hope, and hello despair. Portia, goodbye to you. My hearts too sad for long goodbyes. Losers always leave quickly."), ("Portia", "Good riddance! Close the curtains and leave. I hope everyone who looks like him will make the same choice."), ("Salarino", "I saw Bassanio sail away, and Gratiano went with him. Im sure Lorenzo isnt on their ship."), ("Solanio", "That wicked Jew got the duke to listen to his complaints. The duke went with him to search Bassanios ship."), ("Salarino", "He got there too late. The ship was already sailing. But once he got there, the duke learned that Lorenzo and his lover Jessica were together in a gondola. In any case, Antonio assured the duke they werent with Bassanio on his ship."), ("Solanio", "Ive never heard such confused emotions as what that Jew dog was shouting in the streets. My daughter, oh my ducats, oh my daughter! Ran off with a Christian! Oh my Christian ducats! Justice, the law, my ducats, and my daughter, a sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats, of double ducats, stolen from me by my daughter, and jewelstwo stones, two rich and precious stonesstolen by my daughter! Justice, find the girl! She has the stones on her, and the ducats."), ("Salarino", "I know, all the boys in Venice are following him, yelling, His stones, his daughter, and his ducats!"), ("Solanio", "I hope Antonio repays his loan on time, or hell suffer for this."), ("Salarino", "Thats a good point. I spoke with a Frenchman yesterday who said that a Venetian ship loaded with treasure was wrecked in the English Channel. I thought about Antonio when he told me. I silently hoped it wasnt his ship."), ("Solanio", "You should tell Antonio what you hearbut dont do it suddenly, because it might upset him."), ("Salarino", "Theres no nicer guy in the whole world. I saw Bassanio and Antonio say goodbye. Bassanio told him hed try to hurry back. Antonio answered Dont rush. Dont do a sloppy job for my sake, Bassanio. Stay until everything is finished. As for the Jews contract, dont let it be a factor in your plans. Be happy and concentrate your thoughts on love and how to win your love. Then his eyes started tearing up. He turned his face away. Then he shook Bassanios hand affectionatelyand they separated."), ("Solanio", "I think he only loves life because of Bassanio. Lets go find him and cheer him up."), ("Salarino", "Yes, lets do that."), ("Nerissa", "Hurry, hurry, close the curtain quick. The prince of Arragon has taken his oath, and hes coming to make his choice now."), ("Portia", "Look, here are the boxes, prince. If you choose the one that contains my picture, well be married right away. But if you fail, you have to leave immediately. No pleas will be allowed."), ("Arragon", "I swore Id do three things. First, I can never tell anyone what box I choose. Second, if I choose the wrong box, Ill never propose marriage for the rest of my life. Third, if I pick the wrong box, Ill leave immediately."), ("Portia", "Everyone who comes to gamble on winning me has to swear to these three rules."), ("Arragon", "Okay, Im ready. I hope luck will give me what my heart hopes for! Gold, silver, and common lead. He who chooses me must give and risk all he has. Youd have to be more attractive for me to give or risk anything for you. What does the golden box say? Hmm, let me see: He who chooses me will get what many men want. What many men wantthat many could mean that most people are fools and choose by whatever is flashy. They dont go beyond what their eyes see. They dont bother to find out whats on the inside. Just like those birds called martins who build their nests on the outside of walls, people pay too much attention to whats on the outside. So I wont choose what many men desire, because I wont jump on the bandwagon and include myself with the whole crude population. So I guess its you, you silver treasure house. Tell me once more what you say. He who chooses me will get what he deserves. Thats nicely putbecause whos going to cheat luck and get more than he deserves? No one should have an honor he doesnt deserve. Oh, wouldnt it be great if property, rank, official positions, and other honors were earned only by merit, not by corruption? There wouldnt be too many important men then. How many people who are humble now would be great then? How many people who give orders now would have to take orders? How many noblemen would be weeded out and would become peasants? And how many common people would suddenly shine with nobility? Well, let me get back to my choice. He who chooses me will get what he deserves. Ill assume I deserve the very best. Give me a key for this one. Ill unlock my fate here in a second."), ("Portia", "You thought about it too long, considering what you found there."), ("Arragon", "Whats this? A picture of an idiot holding a scroll up for me to read! Ill read it. It looks so unlike Portia! This outcome isnt what I hoped for, or what I deserve. The one who chooses me will get what he deserves! Didnt I deserve anything more than a fools head? Is this my prize? Dont I deserve more than this?"), ("Portia", "Judging what you deserve is one thing. Offending you is something very different, so Ill keep my mouth shut."), ("Arragon", "What does this say? (he reads) This box was tested in the fire seven times. The person who never makes a wrong choice Has wisdom that will stand the test. Some people kiss shadows. They only feel the shadow of joy. There are fools out there With silver hair and silver coins. This choice was as foolish as they are. Take whatever wife you want to bed with you, Youll have a fools head forever. So go away. Youre done here. The longer I stay, the more foolish I look. I came here with a fools head on my shoulders and now Im leaving with two. Goodbye, sweet lady. Ill keep my oath and patiently suffer through my anger."), ("Portia", "These men are like moths, drawn to these boxes as if they were flames. This is how the candle burned the moth. Oh, these fools! When they choose, they only know how to lose."), ("Nerissa", "You know what they say. Destiny chooses when youll die and who youll marry."), ("Portia", "Come on, close the curtain, Nerissa."), ("Messenger", "Wheres lady Portia?"), ("Portia", "Here. How can I help you, sir?"), ("Messenger", "Madam, a young Venetian man has arrived to tell us his master is about to arrive. This lord has sent gifts. Besides his nice polite greetings, his gifts are expensive. I havent seen such a promising candidate for your love. This servant has arrived before his master the way a sweet spring day hints about a lush summer. But theres never been an April day as promising as this."), ("Portia", "Please dont tell me any more. Im almost afraid youre going to tell me hes a relative of yours, because youre going so crazy praising him. Come on, Nerissa, I want to go see this man whos come so courteously."), ("Nerissa", "I hope its Bassanio coming to win Portia!"), ("Solanio", "So, whats the news on the Rialto?"), ("Salarino", "Well, theres a rumor that Antonio had a ship carrying expensive cargo that shipwrecked in the English Channel on the Goodwin Sands, a very dangerous sandbar. Many ships have sunk there, according to rumors."), ("Solanio", "I hope this new rumor is a lie, like the gossiping widows claim that she was sorry her third husband died! But its trueI dont want to get all mushy and go on and on, but the good Antonio, the honest Antoniooh, if I only had a title good enough to match his!"), ("Salarino", "Come on, get to the point."), ("Solanio", "What are you saying? Well, the point is, hes lost a ship."), ("Salarino", "I hope thats all he loses."), ("Solanio", "Let me say amen quickly, before the devil comes in and stops my prayerbecause here comes the devil, disguised as a Jew. Hows it going, Shylock? Whats the news among the merchants?"), ("Shylock", "You knewno one knew, no one knew as well as you didabout my daughters plans to run away."), ("Salarino", "Thats true. I even knew the tailor who made the disguise she wore when she ran off."), ("Solanio", "And Shylock knew his daughter was ready to run away. Its natural for children to leave their parents."), ("Shylock", "Shell be damned for it."), ("Salarino", "Thats trueif the devils judging her."), ("Shylock", "My own flesh and blood turned against me! A rebel!"), ("Solanio", "No! Your flesh still rebelsSolanio pretends to think Shylock means he cant control his own sexual urges.flesh still rebels at your age?"), ("Shylock", "I mean my daughter is my flesh and blood."), ("Salarino", "You two are totally different. Your flesh is more different from hers than coal is from ivory. Theres more difference between your bloods than between red wine and white. But tell us, did you hear anything about Antonios loss at sea?"), ("Shylock", "Thats another bad deal Ive made!a bankrupt, a spendthrift, who now has to hide his head on the Rialto, a beggar who used to look so smug in front of the other merchants. Let him think about his own debt. He liked to call me a loan shark; let him think about his debt to me. He used to lend money as a favor between Christians; but now, let him think about his own debt."), ("Salarino", "But you wont take his flesh if he cant pay. Whats that good for?"), ("Shylock", "Ill use it for fish bait. You cant eat human flesh, but if it feeds nothing else, itll feed my revenge. Hes insulted me and cost me half a million ducats. Hes laughed at my losses, made fun of my earnings, humiliated my race, thwarted my deals, turned my friends against me, riled up my enemiesand why? Because Im a Jew. Doesnt a Jew have eyes? Doesnt a Jew have hands, bodily organs, a human shape, five senses, feelings, and passions? Doesnt a Jew eat the same food, get hurt with the same weapons, get sick with the same diseases, get healed by the same medicine, and warm up in summer and cool off in winter just like a Christian? If you prick us with a pin, dont we bleed? If you tickle us, dont we laugh? If you poison us, dont we die? And if you treat us badly, wont we try to get revenge? If were like you in everything else, well resemble you in that respect. If a Jew offends a Christian, whats the Christians kind and gentle reaction? Revenge. If a Christian offends a Jew, what punishment will he come up with if he follows the Christian example? Of course, the same thingrevenge! Ill treat you as badly as you Christians taught me toand youll be lucky if I dont outdo my teachers."), ("Servant", "(to SOLANIO and SALARINO) My master Antonio is at his house and would like to speak to you both."), ("Salarino", "Weve been looking for him everywhere."), ("Solanio", "Here comes another Jew. You couldnt find a third like these two unless the devil himself turned into a Jew."), ("Shylock", "Hello, Tubal. Any news from Genoa? Did you find my daughter?"), ("Tubal", "I went to many places where I heard news about her, but I couldnt find her."), ("Shylock", "Oh, oh, oh! One of the stolen diamonds cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfurt! I never felt the curse of the Jews until now. I never felt it until nowtwo thousand ducats in that diamond, and other precious, precious jewels! I wish my daughter were dead at my feet wearing those jewels! I wish she were in her coffin here, with the ducats in her coffin! You couldnt find out anything about them? Why? I dont even know how much Im spending to find them. Loss upon loss! The thief left with so much, and Im spending so much to hunt down the thiefand still Im not satisfied! I havent gotten my revenge. The only luck I have is bad luck. Nobody suffers but me. Nobodys crying except me."), ("Tubal", "Well, other men have bad luck too. Antonio, as I heard in Genoa"), ("Shylock", "What, what, what? Bad luck, bad luck?"), ("Tubal", "Hes had a ship wrecked coming from Tripolis."), ("Shylock", "Thank God, thank God! Is it true, is it true?"), ("Tubal", "I spoke with some of the sailors who survived the wreck."), ("Shylock", "Thank you, Tubal. Good news, good news! Ha, ha, heard in Genoa."), ("Tubal", "I also heard that your daughter spent eighty ducats in Genoa one night."), ("Shylock", "Oh, youre sticking a dagger in me! Ill never see my gold again. Eighty ducats in one shot! Eighty ducats!"), ("Tubal", "I came to Venice with a number of Antonios creditors who say he wont be able to avoid going bankrupt."), ("Shylock", "Im very glad about that. Ill hound him. Ill torture him. Im very glad."), ("Tubal", "One creditor showed me a ring he got from your daughter in exchange for a monkey."), ("Shylock", "Damn her! Youre torturing me, Tubal. That was my turquoise ring! Leah gave it to me before we were married. I wouldnt have given it away for a whole jungle of monkeys."), ("Tubal", "But Antonios certainly ruined."), ("Shylock", "Thats true, thats very true. Tubal, go find me a police officer to arrest Antonio. Get him ready two weeks ahead of time. Ill take Antonios heart if he cant pay. With him out of Venice, I can make whatever bargains I want when I lend money. Go, Tubal. Meet me at the synagogue."), ("Portia", "(to BASSANIO) Please wait a day or two before making your choice. If you choose wrong, Ill lose your company. So wait a while. Something tells menot love, but somethingthat I dont want to lose you, and you know that if I hated you I wouldnt think that. But let me put it more clearly in case you dont understandthough I know girls arent supposed to express their thoughtsIm just saying Id like you to stay here for a month or two before you undergo the test for me. I could tell you how to choose correctly, but then Id be disregarding the oath I took. So Ill never tell. But you might lose me by making the wrong choice. If you do choose wrong, youll make me wish for something very bad. Id wish I had ignored my oath and told you everything. God, your eyes have bewitched me. Theyve divided me in two. One half of me is yours, and the other halfmy own half, Id call itbelongs to you too. If its mine, then its yours, and so Im all yours. But in this awful day and age people dont even have the right to their own property! So though Im yours, Im not yours. If theres no chance for me to be yours, then its just bad luck. I know Im talking too much, but I do that just to make the time last longer, and to postpone your test."), ("Bassanio", "Let me choose now. I feel tortured by all this talking."), ("Portia", "Tortured, BassanioPortia and Bassanio are role-playing here, pretending to be torturer and victim. Bassanio? Then confess to your crime. Tell us about the treason youve mixed in with your love."), ("Bassanio", "The only treason Im guilty of is worrying that Im never going to get to enjoy you. Treason has nothing at all to do with my love. Theyre as opposite as hot and cold."), ("Portia", "Hmmm, Im not sure I believe what youre saying. Men under torture will confess anything."), ("Bassanio", "Promise me youll let me live, and Ill confess the truth."), ("Portia", "All right then, confess and live."), ("Bassanio", "Confess and love is more like it. Oh, tortures fun when my torturer tells me what I have to say to go free! But let me try my luck on the boxes."), ("Portia", "Go ahead, then. Im locked in one of them. If you really love me, youll find me. Nerissa and the rest of you, get away from him. Play some music while he chooses. Then if he loses, itll be his swan song, music before the end. And since swans need water to swim in, Ill cry him a river when he loses. But on the other hand, he may win. What music should we play then? If he wins, the music should be like the majestic trumpets that blare when subjects bow to a newly crowned monarch. Its the sweet sounds at daybreak that the dreaming bridegroom hears on his wedding morning, calling him to the church. Bassanios walking to the boxes now. He looks as dignified as Hercules did when he saved the princess Hesione from the sea monster. But he loves me more than Hercules loved the princess. Ill play Hesione, and everyone else will be the bystanders watching with tear-streaked faces. Weve all come out to see what will happen. Go, Hercules! If you survive, Ill live. Im more anxious watching you fight than you are in the fight itself."), ("Singer", "(singing) Tell me where do our desires start, In the heart or in the head? How are they created, how sustained?"), ("All", "Answer me, answer me."), ("Singer", "(singing) Desires start in the eyes, Sustained by gazing, and desires die Very young. Lets all mourn our dead desires. Ill beginDing, dong, bell."), ("All", "Ding, dong, bell."), ("Bassanio", "You cant always judge a book by its cover. People are often tricked by false appearances. In court, someone can deliver a false plea but hide its wickedness with a pretty voice. In religion, dont serious men defend sins with Scripture, covering up evil with a show of good. Every sin in the world manages to make itself look good somehow. How many people are cowards at heart but wear beards like Hercules or Mars, the god of war? Take another example: beauty. It can be bought by the ounce in makeup, which works miracles. Women who wear it the most are respected the least. Its the same thing with hair. Curly golden hair moves so nicely in the wind and makes a woman beautiful. But you can buy that kind of hair as a wig, and wigs are made from dead peoples hair. Decorations nothing but a danger, meant to trick and trap the viewer. A lovely, cunning shore can distract a man from the perils of a stormy sea, just as a pretty scarf can hide a dangerous dark-skinned beauty. Nowadays, everyones fooled by appearances. So Ill have nothing to do with that gaudy gold boxits like the gold that Midas couldnt eat. And Ill have nothing to do with the pale silver either, the metal that common coins are made of. But this humble lead one, though it looks too threatening to promise me anything good, moves me more than I can say. So this is the one I choose. I hope Im happy with my choice!"), ("Portia", "(to herself) All my other emotions are vanishing into thin air, as all my doubts and desperation and fears and jealousy are all flying away! Oh, I need to calm down, make my love and my joy less intense. Im feeling this too strongly. Please make my love less, or Im going to overindulge, making myself sick."), ("Bassanio", "(opening the lead box) What do we have here? A picture of beautiful Portia! What artist captured her likeness so well? Are these eyes moving? Or do they just seem to move as my eyes move? Her sweet breath forces her lips open, a lovely divider of lovely lips. And look at her hair, looking like a golden mesh to trap the hearts of men, like little flies in a cobweb. The painter was like a spider in creating it so delicately. But her eyeshow could he keep looking at them long enough to paint them? I wouldve expected that when he finished one of them, it would have enraptured him and kept him from painting the other. But Im giving only faint praise of the picture, just as the picture, as good as it is, is only a faint imitation of the real woman herself. Heres the scroll that sums up my fate: (he reads) You who dont judge by looks alone, Have better luck, and make the right choice. Since this prize is yours, Be happy with it, and dont look for a new one. If youre happy with what youve won And accept this prize as your blissful destiny, Then turn to where your lady is, And claim her with a loving kiss. A nice message. My lady, with your permission, this note authorizes me to give myself to you with a kiss. But Im in a daze, like someone whos just won a contest and thinks that all the applause and cheering is for him, but isnt sure yet. And so, beautiful lady, Im standing here just like that, wondering whether all this can be true until you tell me it is."), ("Portia", "You see me standing here, Lord Bassanio. What you see is what you get. Though I wouldnt wish to be better for my own sake, for your sake I wish I were twenty times more than myselfa thousand times more beautiful and ten thousand times richerjust so you might value me more, so my good qualities, beauty, possessions, and friends would be more than you could calculate. What youre getting is an innocent and inexperienced girl. Im happy that at least Im not too old to learn new things. Im even happier that Im not stupid, and I can learn. Im happiest of all that Im yours now, my lord, my king, and you can guide me as you wish. Everything I am and everything I have now belongs to you. Just a minute ago I was the owner of this beautiful mansion, master of these servants, and queen over myself. But as of right this second all these things are yours. With this ring I give them all to you. If you ever give away this ring or lose it, it means our loves doomed, and Ill have a right to be angry with you. (she gives BASSANIO the ring)"), ("Bassanio", "Madam, youve left me speechless, but my feelings are responding to your words. Im as confused as a crowd of people going wild after hearing their prince give a speech. But the day I take this ring off will be the day I die. If you see me without it, you can be confident Im dead."), ("Nerissa", "My lord and lady, its now our turn, who have been watching as our dreams came true. Now we can shout, Congratulations, congratulations, my lord and lady!"), ("Gratiano", "My Lord Bassanio, and my dear lady, I wish you all the joy I can wish for. And when you get married, I hope I can be married at the same time."), ("Bassanio", "Absolutely, if you can find a wife by then."), ("Gratiano", "I think Ive found one already, thanks to you, my lord. I can fall in love just as quickly as you can, and I loved Nerissa as soon as I laid eyes on her. You fell in love with Portia, and I fell in love with Nerissa, because Im not in the habit of delaying any more than you are, my lord. Your fate depended on those boxes, and it turns out that mine did too. I couldnt help but chase her. I started making love vows to her till my mouth was dry. Then finally she said she loved me and would marry me if you two got married as well."), ("Portia", "Is that true, Nerissa?"), ("Nerissa", "Yes, madam, it is, if its all right with you."), ("Bassanio", "And do you mean what youre saying, Gratiano?"), ("Gratiano", "Yes, my lord."), ("Bassanio", "Then wed be honored to have you join us in our wedding ceremony."), ("Gratiano", "(to NERISSA) Lets bet them a thousand ducats that we will have a son first."), ("Nerissa", "You want to stake the money down now?"), ("Gratiano", "Hey, if I lay down my stakeGratiano puns on stake as both money that is bet and penis.stake, Ill never be able to have a son. But whos this coming? Lorenzo and his pagan girlfriend? What, and my old Venetian friend Salerio?"), ("Bassanio", "Welcome, Lorenzo and Salerio. I hope my position in this new house is firm enough to allow me the right to welcome my friends. (to PORTIA) With your permission, Portia, I welcome my good friends and countrymen."), ("Portia", "I do too, my lord. Theyre entirely welcome."), ("Lorenzo", "(to BASSANIO) Thank you, sir. I didnt intend to come see you. But I ran into Salerio on the way, and he begged me to come along with him until I couldnt say no."), ("Salerio", "Thats true, and with good reason. This letter is for you from Signor Antonio. (he gives BASSANIO a letter)"), ("Bassanio", "Before I open this letter, please tell me how my good friend is doing."), ("Salerio", "Hes not sick, my lord, but hes very upset, and his problems are serious. His letter will tell you how hes doing."), ("Gratiano", "(pointing at JESSICA) Nerissa, welcome this stranger. Salerio, welcome. Any news from Venice? Hows the great merchant Antonio doing? I know hell be happy to hear of our success. Were like the ancient hero Jason, we went looking for the Golden Fleece and we won it!"), ("Salerio", "I wish youd won the fleeceSalerio puns on fleece (the wool from a ram) and fleets (groups of ships).fleece he lost."), ("Portia", "Something bad in that letter is making Bassanio turn pale. Some good friend of his must have died, because nothing else in the world could change a man so much. What, does the news only get worse? Please, Bassanio, Im half of you, so let me bear half the burden this letter brings you."), ("Bassanio", "Oh Portia, these are some of the worst words that ever stained a piece of paper. My darling, when I gave my love to you, I told you that all the wealth I had ran within my veinsthat I have noble blood, but no money. When I said that, I told you the truth. But my dear, when I said I was worth nothing, I was actually braggingI shouldve said that I was worse than nothing. Ive borrowed money from a dear friend who in turn borrowed money from his mortal enemy for my sake. Heres a letter, my dear. The papers like my friends body, and every word in it is a bleeding wound on that body. But is it true, Salerio? Have all his business ventures failed? Not even one success? He had ships to Tripolis, Mexico, England, Lisbon, North Africa, and India, and not one of these ships avoided the rocks?"), ("Salerio", "Not one, my lord. Anyway, even if he had the money now, the Jew probably wouldnt take it. Ive never seen a creature with a human shape who was so eager to destroy a man. Hes at the dukes morning and night, accusing the state of harming free trade if they deny him justice. Twenty merchants, the duke himself, and the highest-ranking Venetian nobles have all tried to persuade him to forget his contract, but nobody can do it. Hes determined to get the penalty specified in his contract with Antonio."), ("Jessica", "When I was still living with him I heard him swear to Tubal and Cush, his countrymen, that hed rather have Antonios flesh than twenty times the sum Antonio owed. And I know that unless the law intervenes, itll be bad news for poor Antonio."), ("Portia", "Is this your good friend whos in so much trouble?"), ("Bassanio", "Yes, hes my best friend, the kindest man and most courteous to others. Hes more honorable than anyone else in Italy."), ("Portia", "How much does he owe the Jew?"), ("Bassanio", "Three thousand ducats."), ("Portia", "What, thats all? Pay him six thousand and cancel the debt. Id pay twelve thousand before Id let a friend like that suffer in the slightest because of you. First come with me to church to get married. Then you can leave for Venice to see your friend. You have to go, because youll never sleep next to me peacefully without settling this. Ill give you enough gold to pay back your debt twenty times over. When its paid, bring your friend back. Until you get back, Nerissa and I will live like virgins and widows. Come on, lets go, because youre going to leave me the same day we get married. Put on a happy face, and welcome your friends. Since its costing me a lot to marry you, Ill think of you as even more precious. But let me hear the letter from your friend."), ("Bassanio", "(he reads) Dear Bassanio, my ships have all been wrecked. My creditors are getting mean. My moneys almost run out. I couldnt pay my debt to the Jew on the due date. Since Ill certainly die when he takes his collateral out of my flesh, all debts are cleared between you and me if I can just see you again before I die. In any case, do what you want. If your affection for me doesnt convince you to come, dont let my letter do so."), ("Portia", "Oh, my darling, make your arrangements and go!"), ("Bassanio", "Since youre letting me leave, Ill hurry. But I wont sleep till I get back."), ("Shylock", "Jailer, watch out for this one. Dont try to convince me to feel sorry for him. This is the fool who lent out money without charging interest. Jailer, keep an eye on him."), ("Antonio", "Listen to me, good Shylock."), ("Shylock", "Im going to get my bondShylock uses the word bond here to mean the goods Antonio promised to give Shylock if he defaulted on the loanin other words, the pound of Antonios flesh.bond . Dont try to say anything against my taking my bond. Ive sworn an oath that I will have my bond. You called me a dog before you had any reason to. But since Im a dog, beware my fangs. The duke will give me justice. I do wonder, jailer, how you can be so foolish as to let this prisoner out of his cell."), ("Antonio", "Please, listen to me."), ("Shylock", "I want my bond. I wont listen to you. I want my bond, so stop talking. I wont be taken for a fool who sighs and gives in to Christian meddlers. Dont follow me. Im not talking with you. I want my bond."), ("Solanio", "Hes the most stubborn dog that ever lived among humans."), ("Antonio", "Leave him alone. I wont follow him around with useless pleas anymore. He wants me dead. I know the real reason. Ive often given money to people who were unable to pay back their loans to him. Thats why he hates me."), ("Solanio", "Im sure the duke will never allow this contract to be enforced."), ("Antonio", "The duke cant deny the law, because that would threaten the security of all foreign merchants in Venice, and thats how the city makes its money. If the government disregards the law, it will be discredited. So go. Ive lost so much weight worrying about my losses have that Ill hardly have a pound of flesh to spare for my bloody creditor tomorrow. Well, jailer, lets go. I hope to God that Bassanio comes to see me pay his debt. After that, I dont care what happens."), ("Lorenzo", "Madam, I hope you dont mind my saying that I admire your noble respect for friendship, which you show in letting your husband go off to help his friend like this. If you only knew the man youre helping out, and what a faithful gentleman he is and how much he loves your husband, I know youd be even prouder of your kindness than you normally might be."), ("Portia", "Ive never regretted doing good, and I dont now. Friends who spend a lot of time together and really care equally for each other must have many traits in common. Since Antonios my husbands best friend, they must be very similar men. In that case, the money Ive sent is a small price to pay to rescue someone who resembles my Bassanio, whos like my own soul. Anyway, lets change the subject, since I feel like Im starting to flatter myself. I have a favor to ask of you. Lorenzo, please take charge of the management of my house until my husband comes back. Ive sworn to God that Ill live a life of prayer and contemplation until my husband returns. Only Nerissa will keep me company. Theres a monastery two miles away where we can stay. Please say youll agree, because I really need you to do this."), ("Lorenzo", "Madam, with all my heart. Ill do anything you ask."), ("Portia", "Ive already spoken to my staff about this. Theyll consider you and Jessica masters of this house in place of Lord Bassanio and myself. So goodbye until we meet again."), ("Lorenzo", "I hope you can relax and enjoy yourself!"), ("Jessica", "I hope you find peace and happiness, my lady."), ("Portia", "Thank you. I wish you the same. Goodbye, Jessica. Now, Balthazar, youve always been honest and faithful to me, and I trust you still are. (she gives BALTHAZAR a letter) Take this letter to Padua as fast as you can. Make sure you put it into the hands of my cousin Bellario, the Doctor of Laws. And as quickly as possible, take whatever letters and clothes he gives you to the public ferry that goes back and forth to Venice. Dont waste time talking now. Just go. Ill meet you at the ferry."), ("Balthazar", "Ill go as fast as I can, madam."), ("Portia", "Come on, Nerissa, I have many things to do that you dont even know about yet. Well see our husbands before they even have a chance to miss us."), ("Nerissa", "Will they see us?"), ("Portia", "They will, Nerissa, but well be disguised as men. Ill bet you anything that Ill be handsomer than you when were both dressed up. Ill wear my sword more gracefully, and speak like a teenage boy, and walk with a manly stride rather than my ladylike steps. Ill talk about fights like a bragging youth, and Ill tell cute lies about honorable ladies who fell in love with me and got sick and died when I rejected them. They just died, what could I do! Then Ill start feeling sorry for them, wishing I hadnt killed them. Ill tell twenty lies like that, so men will think I graduated from school at least a year ago. I know a thousand immature tricks like that, and Ill use them all."), ("Nerissa", "Why, are we turning to men?"), ("Portia", "What kind of question is that! If I had a dirty mind, Id think you meant turning to men for sex. Here, Ill tell you my whole plan in my carriage, which is waiting for us at the gate. So hurry up, because we have twenty miles to cover today."), ("Launcelot", "Yes, look, its true that children are punished for the sins of their fathers. Thats why Im worried about you. Ive always been straightforward with you, so now Im telling you what I think. Cheer up, because I think youre going to hell. Theres only one hope for you, and even thats a kind of illegitimate hope."), ("Jessica", "What hope is that, may I ask?"), ("Launcelot", "You can hope your father isnt your real father. Maybe your mother fooled around, and you arent the Jews daughter."), ("Jessica", "That really is an illegitimate hope. Then Id be punished for the sins of my mother."), ("Launcelot", "In that case Im afraid youre damned by both your father and your mother. When you avoid one trap, you fall into another. Youre in trouble either way."), ("Jessica", "My husband will save me. Hes made me a Christian."), ("Launcelot", "He was wrong to do that. There were enough Christians beforeas many of them as could stand to live near each other. All these new Christians will make the price of hogs go up. If were all pork-eaters, we wont be able to get our hands on a slice of bacon, even if weve got the money for it."), ("Jessica", "Ill tell my husband what youve said, Launcelot. Here he comes."), ("Lorenzo", "Youre going to make me jealous, Launcelot, if you keep taking my wife into dark corners like this!"), ("Jessica", "No, you dont need to worry about us, Lorenzo. Launcelot and I cant agree on anything. He says I wont get into heaven because Im a Jews daughter, and he says youre irresponsible because by converting Jews to Christianity youre raising the price of pork."), ("Lorenzo", "I can justify that better than you can justify sleeping with Portias African servant. The MoorLike the prince of Morocco, the servant referred to is a Moor or North African, in this case a black woman. Launcelot puns on the words Moor and more. Moor is pregnant with your child, Launcelot."), ("Launcelot", "Its too bad theres more of the Moor than there ought to be. Well, even if shes a less than honest woman, shes still a lot more respectable than I thought at first."), ("Lorenzo", "Any fool can make puns! I think the best sign of intelligence will soon be silence, and talking will only be a good thing for parrots to do. Go in and tell the servants to get ready for dinner."), ("Launcelot", "Thats already been done, sir. Theyre all ready to eat dinner."), ("Lorenzo", "Good Lord, what a clown you are! Tell them to make the dinner."), ("Launcelot", "Thats also been done, sir. The word youre looking for is coverBy cover, Launcelot means set the table.cover ."), ("Lorenzo", "Will you cover, then?"), ("Launcelot", "No, sirI know my duty. LauncelotLauncelot now interprets cover to mean put on his hat, which hes not supposed to do in front of his superiors. Launcelot"), ("Lorenzo", "You keep finding ways to mock me! Are you planning on showing me all your wit at once? Please understand my simple message: go tell the servants to set the table and bring in the food, and well come in to dinner."), ("Launcelot", "About the table, sir, dinner will be served on it. As for the food, it will be served in covered dishes. As for your coming in to dinner, just do what you feel is right."), ("Lorenzo", "Oh, hes good at bending words around! The fool has memorized a whole army full of fancy words. I know jesters in better positions, with the same talents he has. They also like to digress from the topic at hand by playing with language. Anyway, how are you, Jessica? And how do you like Lord Bassanios wife?"), ("Jessica", "I like her more than I can say. Bassanio should live an upstanding life because having a wife like Portia is a blessing. Its as if he found heaven here on earth. And if he doesnt deserve this joy on earth, hell never deserve it in heaven. Imagine what would happen if two gods in heaven made a bet. If one of them used Portia as his stake, the other god would have a hard time coming up with a human woman to match her value. The poor rude world doesnt have her equal."), ("Lorenzo", "As good a wife as she is, thats how good a husband I am to you."), ("Jessica", "Ill be the judge of that!"), ("Lorenzo", "Ill give you a chance to judge later. First lets go to dinner."), ("Jessica", "No, let me say some good things about you while Im in the mood."), ("Lorenzo", "No, please, save it for dinner conversation. That way, no matter what you say, Ill digest it with everything else."), ("Jessica", "In that case Ill serve you up like a dish of food."), ("Duke", "Is Antonio here?"), ("Antonio", "Yes, sir, Im here."), ("Duke", "I feel sorry for you. Youve come to face a ruthless enemy, an inhuman wretch incapable of pity, without any feelings of mercy."), ("Antonio", "They tell me youve done everything you can to talk him out of what hes doing. But since he remains stubborn, and theres no legal way to protect me from his malice, Ill just have to take what hell give me. Im ready to suffer peacefully whatever he does to me in his cruelty and anger."), ("Duke", "One of you go call the Jew into court here."), ("Salerio", "Hes standing ready outside the door. Here he comes, my lord."), ("Duke", "Make room so he can stand in front of me. Shylock, everyone thinksand I agreethat youre just pretending to be cruel. They think that at the last second youre going to show mercy and pity, which will be more surprising than the bizarre cruelty that you seem to be showing now. And even though youre here to collect the penaltya pound of this poor merchants fleshthey think youll not only let it go, but out of humanity and love youll forgive some portion of the principal he owes you too. In doing so youll be taking pity on him for his many recent losses, which have been large enough to send even the greatest merchant out of business, and make even the most hard-hearted Turk or Tartar feel sorry for him. What do you say? We all expect a nice answer from you, Jew."), ("Shylock", "Ive told you what I intend to do, and Ive sworn by the holy Sabbath to seek the penalty that is due according to our contract. If you refuse to allow me to do so, your citys charter and its freedom are endangered. Youre going to ask me why Id rather have a pound of decaying flesh than three thousand ducats. I wont answer that. Lets just say its because I feel like it. Is that enough of an answer? What if I had a rat in my house, and I felt like paying ten thousand ducats to have it exterminated? Do you have your answer yet? Some men dont like roast pig, others go crazy if they see a cat, and others cant help urinating when they hear bagpipes. Theres no sense trying to explain peoples likes and dislikes. So, to answer your question. Just as theres no clear reason why one man doesnt want a roast pig, or why another man cant stand a harmless and useful cat, or another cant tolerate bagpipes, so I cant give a reason, and I wont give a reason (other than the simple hate and loathing I feel for Antonio) why Im pursuing this unprofitable case against him. Does that answer your question?"), ("Bassanio", "Thats no answer, you heartless man. It doesnt excuse your cruel behavior."), ("Shylock", "I dont have to give you answers that you like."), ("Bassanio", "Does everyone kill what they dont love?"), ("Shylock", "Does anyone hate something and not want to kill it?"), ("Bassanio", "Disliking something isnt the same thing as hating it."), ("Shylock", "What, would you let a snake bite you twice?"), ("Antonio", "(to BASSANIO) Please dont bother arguing with the Jew. You might as well go stand on the beach and ask the ocean to get smaller. You might as well ask a wolf why he killed the lamb and made its mother cry. You might as well tell the pine trees on the mountain to stop waving their treetops when the storms blow through them. You might as well do the impossible rather than try to soften his Jewish heart. Its the hardest thing imaginable. Therefore Im begging you, dont make any more offers, dont look for other ways to stop him. Just let me receive my punishment, and let the Jew take his penalty."), ("Bassanio", "(to SHYLOCK) Instead of your three thousand ducats, here are six thousand."), ("Shylock", "If you offered me six times that, I wouldnt accept it. I would choose to take my penalty."), ("Duke", "How can you ever hope for mercy for yourself, when you dont give any now?"), ("Shylock", "Why should I be afraid of your judgment when I havent done anything wrong? Many of you own slaves, whichlike your donkeys and dogs and mulesyou use to perform awful jobs just because you bought them. Should I say to you, Set them free! Let them marry your children! Why are you making them work so hard? Let their beds be as soft as yours, and let them eat the same food as you? No, youd answer, The slaves are ours. And thats just how Im answering you. The pound of flesh that I want from him was very expensive. Its mine and Im going to get it. If you refuse me, the laws of Venice have no validity. I await justice. So answer me. Will I get it?"), ("Duke", "I have the authority to dismiss this court, unless Bellario comes today. Hes a legal expert I sent for to act as judge and help settle this matter."), ("Salerio", "My lord, a messenger is waiting outside with letters from Bellario. Hes just come from Padua."), ("Duke", "Bring us the letters. Call the messenger in."), ("Bassanio", "Cheer up, Antonio! Keep up your courage, man! Ill give the Jew my flesh, blood, bones, and everything before you lose one drop of blood for me."), ("Antonio", "Im like the one sick sheep in the flock, the one who deserves to die. The weakest fruit drops to the ground first, so let me drop. Bassanio, the best thing you can do is to keep living and write an epitaph for my gravestone."), ("Duke", "Have you come from Bellarios office in Padua?"), ("Nerissa", "Yes, my lord. Bellario sends his greetings. (she gives the DUKE a letter)"), ("Bassanio", "(to SHYLOCK) Why are you sharpening your knife so eagerly?"), ("Shylock", "To cut my penalty from that bankrupt man over there."), ("Gratiano", "Youre sharpening that knife not on your sole but on your soul, you cruel Jew. No metalnot even the executioners axecould ever be half as sharp as your hatred. Cant any prayers reach your heart?"), ("Shylock", "No, none that youre smart enough to make."), ("Gratiano", "Oh, youre going to hell, you disgusting dog. Killing you would be justice. You almost make me forget that Im a Christian. You make me want to agree with the philosopher Pythagoras that animal souls are reincarnated in human bodies. Your vicious dog soul used to belong to a wolf that was killed for slaughtering humans. When he died, his cruel soul passed out of his body and went into yours while you were lying in your unholy mothers womb. Thats why your desires are wolfish, bloody, and ravenous."), ("Shylock", "Unless your taunts can undo the signature on my contract, youre just wearing out your lungs by speaking so loud. Be quiet, boy, or youll lose your mind. I stand here with the law on my side."), ("Duke", "This letter from Bellario introduces us to a young and well-educated legal expert. Where is he?"), ("Nerissa", "Hes waiting nearby to find out if youll invite him in."), ("Duke", "With all my heart. Three or four of you go welcome him. In the meantime, Ill read Bellarios letter out loud. (he reads) Ive received your letter but Im very sick at the moment. As it happened, when your messenger came, a young lawyer from Rome was visiting me. His name is Balthazar. I told him about the case of the Jew and Antonio the merchant, and we consulted many books together. He knows my legal opinions about this matter, and he has his own expert opinions as well. Im sending him in my place to answer your request for someone to act as judge in this matter. Please dont underestimate him because hes so young. I never knew such a young man with such a mature head. I leave him to you. When you put him to the test, youll see how wonderful he really is. You hear what the wise and educated Bellario writes. And this is the legal professor, I take it. Let me shake your hand. Did old Bellario send you here?"), ("Portia", "Yes, my lord."), ("Duke", "Welcome. Please have a seat. Are you familiar with the case currently before the court?"), ("Portia", "Yes, thoroughly. Which one is the merchant? And which one is the Jew?"), ("Duke", "Antonio and Shylock, both of you come forward."), ("Portia", "Is your name Shylock?"), ("Shylock", "Shylock is my name."), ("Portia", "Your case is most unusual, though the Venetian law cant stop you from proceeding.(to ANTONIO) He has a claim on you, correct?"), ("Antonio", "Yes, so he says."), ("Portia", "Do you acknowledge the contract?"), ("Antonio", "Yes, I do."), ("Portia", "Then the Jew must show you mercy."), ("Shylock", "Why do I have to do that? Tell me."), ("Portia", "No one shows mercy because he has to. It just happens, the way gentle rain drops on the ground. Mercy is a double blessing. It blesses the one who gives it and the one who receives it. Its strongest in the strongest people. It looks better in a king than his own crown looks on him. The kings scepter represents his earthly power, the symbol of majesty, the focus of royal authority. But mercy is higher than the scepter. Its enthroned in the hearts of kings, a quality of God himself. Kingly power seems most like Gods power when the king mixes mercy with justice. So although justice is your plea, Jew, consider this. Justice wont save our souls. We pray for mercy, and this same prayer teaches us to show mercy to others as well. Ive told you this to make you give up this case. If you pursue it, this strict court of Venice will need to carry out the sentence against the merchant there."), ("Shylock", "I take all responsibility for my decisions. I want the law, the penalty, and the fulfillment of my contract."), ("Portia", "Cant he pay back the money?"), ("Bassanio", "Yes. Im offering to pay it back right this momenteven twice the sum. If thats not enough, Ill sign a contract to pay ten times that much, and Ill give you my hands, my head, and my heart as security. If thats not enough, then youre just evil and malicious.(to the DUKE) I beg you, just this once, use your authority to bend the law. Do a great right by doing a little wrong. Dont let this devil have his way."), ("Portia", "That cant happen. Theres no power in Venice that can change an established decree. The change will be recorded as a precedent, and many bad legal decisions will result. That cant happen."), ("Shylock", "A DanielIn the Bible, as a young man, Daniel shows great wisdom while acting as judge in the case of Susanna, who was falsely accused. Daniel has come to judgment, yes, a Daniel! Oh, wise young judge, I honor you!"), ("Portia", "Please, let me review the contract."), ("Shylock", "(he hands PORTIA a paper) Here it is, judge, here it is."), ("Portia", "Shylock, theyre offering you three times the money you lent."), ("Shylock", "But I made an oath, an oath, an oath in heaven. Should I perjure my soul by disobeying it? No, not for all of Venice."), ("Portia", "The money wasnt paid back! And so the Jew may lawfully claim a pound of flesh nearest the merchants heart, to be cut off by him. But please have mercy. Take three times your money. Tell me to tear up this contract."), ("Shylock", "Ill tear it up when its paid. You seem like a good judge. You know the law. Your explanation has made sense. I urge you to deliver your verdict. I swear that nothing anyone can say will change my mind. Im sticking to the contract."), ("Antonio", "I beg the court to deliver the verdict."), ("Portia", "Well, then, here it is: you must prepare yourself for his knife."), ("Shylock", "Oh, good judge! Oh, you excellent young man!"), ("Portia", "The law fully authorizes the penalty, which you have to pay according to the contract."), ("Shylock", "Very true. Oh wise judge! Youre so much older than you look!"), ("Portia", "(to ANTONIO) So bare your chest."), ("Shylock", "Yes, his chest! Thats what the contract says, doesnt it, judge? Nearest his heart. Those are the very words."), ("Portia", "Yes. Is there a scale here to weigh the flesh?"), ("Shylock", "I have it ready."), ("Portia", "Pay a surgeon to stand by and bind his wounds, Shylock, so he doesnt bleed to death."), ("Shylock", "Is that called for in the contract?"), ("Portia", "Not explicitly, but so what? It wouldnt hurt you to be charitable."), ("Shylock", "I cant find it. Its not in the contract."), ("Portia", "(to ANTONIO) You, merchant, do you have anything to say?"), ("Antonio", "Not much. Im ready and waiting. Give me your hand, Bassanio. Goodbye. Dont be sad that this happened because of you, because Lady Lucks been nicer to me than usual. Usually she makes the unhappy man live on after he loses his wealth, to spend his old age in poverty. But in my case shes letting me avoid that misery. Send your honorable wife my greetings, and tell her how I died and how I loved you. Speak well of me after Im dead, and when the tales done, ask her to judge whether Bassanio had a friend. Be sad only at the fact that youll lose your friendyour friend doesnt regret that he paid your debt. If the Jew cuts deep enough, Ill pay it instantly with all my heart."), ("Bassanio", "Antonio, I married a woman as dear to me as life itself. But life itself, my wife, and the whole world arent more valuable to me than your life is. Id give it all upyes, Id sacrifice them all to this devil hereto save you."), ("Portia", "Your wife wouldnt like it if she were here to hear you make that offer."), ("Gratiano", "I have a wife I love. I wish she were in heaven so she could appeal to some power to make this dog Jew change his mind."), ("Nerissa", "Its nice youre offering to sacrifice her behind her back. That wish of yours could start quite an argument back at home."), ("Shylock", "Thats what you get for marrying Christian husbands. I have a daughter. I wish shed married any one of BarabbassIn the Bible, Barabbas is a thief who is set free at the same time that Jesus is condemned to death. Barabbass descendants instead of a Christian! Were wasting time. Please, deliver the sentence."), ("Portia", "A pound of this merchants flesh is yours. The court awards it and the law authorizes it."), ("Shylock", "What a righteous judge!"), ("Portia", "And you have to cut this flesh from his chest. The law allows it, and the court awards it."), ("Shylock", "What a wise judge! Come on, get ready."), ("Portia", "But wait a moment. Theres something else. This contract doesnt give you any blood at all. The words expressly specify a pound of flesh. So take your penalty of a pound of flesh, but if you shed one drop of Christian blood when you cut it, the state of Venice will confiscate your land and property under Venetian law."), ("Gratiano", "Oh, what an upright judge! Pay attention, Jew. Oh, what a smart judge!"), ("Shylock", "Is that the law?"), ("Portia", "You can see for yourself. You asked for justice, so rest assured youll get more justice than you bargained for."), ("Gratiano", "Oh, what a wise judge! Pay attention, Jew. A wise judge!"), ("Shylock", "In that case Ill take their offer. Pay me three times the amount of the loan and let the Christian go."), ("Bassanio", "Here is the money."), ("Portia", "Wait! The Jew will have justice. Wait, dont rush! Hes not getting anything except the penalty."), ("Gratiano", "Oh, Jew, what an upright judge this is! What a wise judge!"), ("Portia", "So get ready to cut off the flesh. Dont shed any blood, or cut less or more than exactly a pound of flesh. If you take more or less than exactly a pound, even if its just the tiniest fraction of an ounceif the scale changes by even so much as a hair, you die, and all your property will be confiscated."), ("Gratiano", "A second Daniel! A Daniel, Jew! Ive got you now, pagan."), ("Portia", "Why is the Jew waiting? Take your penalty."), ("Shylock", "Give me my money and let me go."), ("Bassanio", "I have it ready for you. Here it is."), ("Portia", "No, he refused it publicly, in open court. He will have only justice and his penalty."), ("Gratiano", "A Daniel, I keep saying it! A second Daniel! Thank you, Jew, for teaching me that word."), ("Shylock", "I wont even get the original three thousand ducats back?"), ("Portia", "You cant have anything but the penalty, to be taken at your peril, Jew."), ("Shylock", "Well, then, I hope he chokes on it! Im not staying here to argue anymore."), ("Portia", "Wait a minute, Jew. The law has another hold on you. The laws of Venice state that if a foreign resident directly or indirectly attempts to kill any citizen, the person he tried to kill will receive one half of the foreigners goods. The other half goes to the state. Whether the offending person lives or dies is up to the duketheres no one else to appeal to. In your predicament youve earned that punishment, because youve clearly contrived indirectlyand directly tooto take the life of the defendant. So get down on your knees and beg mercy from the duke."), ("Gratiano", "Beg to be allowed to hang yourself! But if youve handed over all your wealth to the state, you dont even have enough money left to buy a rope. So youll be hanged at the states expense."), ("Duke", "I want you to see the difference between us, so I pardon you even before you ask for a pardon. Half of your wealth goes to Antonio. The other half goes to the state. However, if you show a proper humility, I may reduce this penalty to a fine."), ("Portia", "Yes, the states half can be reduced, but not Antonios."), ("Shylock", "No, go ahead and take my life. Dont pardon that. You take my house away when you take the money I need for upkeep. You take my life when you take away my means of making a living."), ("Portia", "What mercy can you show him, Antonio?"), ("Gratiano", "A hangmans rope free of charge. Nothing else, for Gods sake!"), ("Antonio", "If the duke and his court agree to set aside the fine for one half of his property, Im happy, as long as he lets me have the other half in trust, to give it to the gentleman who recently stole his daughter. I only ask two more things. First, Shylock must immediately become a Christian. Second, he must make a will here in this court that leaves all his property to his son-in-law Lorenzo and his daughter when he dies."), ("Duke", "He must do this, or Ill recant the pardon I just delivered."), ("Portia", "Are you satisfied, Jew? What do you say?"), ("Shylock", "Im satisfied."), ("Portia", "(to NERISSA) Clerk, draw up a document to make his gift official."), ("Shylock", "Please let me go. Im not well. Send the deed after me and Ill sign it."), ("Duke", "Go, but sign the deed."), ("Gratiano", "(to SHYLOCK) When youre baptized a Christian, youll have two godfathers. If Id been the judge, you wouldve had ten moretwelve jurors to sentence you to death rather than baptism."), ("Duke", "(to PORTIA) Sir, please come home with me to dinner."), ("Portia", "Im very sorry, sir, but I have to go to Padua tonight. I should really leave right away."), ("Duke", "Im sorry you dont have time. Antonio, give this gentleman a reward. In my opinion, you owe him a lot."), ("Bassanio", "(to PORTIA) Sir, thanks to you my friend and I have been freed from paying some awful penalties today. Instead of giving the Jew the three thousand ducats hes owed, we give it to you in gratitude for your kind efforts."), ("Antonio", "And even then were still indebted to you. We owe you love and service forever."), ("Portia", "Being satisfied with a job well done is payment enough. In saving you I consider myself well paid. My thoughts were never on money. I hope youll recognize me when we meet again. I wish you well. Now, Ive got to go."), ("Bassanio", "Sir, I really feel the need to give you something. Take some memento from us as a token of our gratitude, not as a fee. Please do two favors for me. First, dont refuse me, and second, excuse me for insisting."), ("Portia", "Since you keep insisting, Ill do as you say. (to ANTONIO) Give me your gloves. Ill wear them for your sake. (to BASSANIO) And as a souvenir of your appreciation, Ill take this ring from you. Dont pull your hand back. I wont take anything more than this, and you cant refuse me this."), ("Bassanio", "This ring, siroh no, its nothing. Id be ashamed to give you this."), ("Portia", "I dont want anything but that. Now that I think about it, I really want it."), ("Bassanio", "Theres more to this ring than its cash value. Ill give you the most expensive ring in Venice, and Ill make a public announcement to help me find it. But as for this ring, please excuse me."), ("Portia", "I see you like to make big offers, sir. First you taught me how to beg, and now I think youre teaching me how a beggar should be answered."), ("Bassanio", "Good sir, this ring was given to me by my wife. When she put it on my finger, she made me swear never to sell it, give it away, or lose it."), ("Portia", "Many men use that excuse to avoid giving gifts. If your wifes not a madwoman, and you tell her how much I deserve this ring, she wont stay angry at you forever if you give it to me. Well, anyway, goodbye."), ("Antonio", "Bassanio, let him have the ring. Consider how much he deserves it, and weigh that, along with my friendship, against your wifes order."), ("Bassanio", "(he gives GRATIANO the ring) Go, Gratiano, run and catch up with him. Give him the ring, and take him to Antonios house if you can. Go quickly. Come on, you and I will go soon. Early in the morning well both rush to Belmont. Come on, Antonio."), ("Portia", "Find out where the Jews house is. Give him this deed and have him sign it. Well leave tonight and be home a day before our husbands get back. Lorenzo will be happy with what weve done."), ("Gratiano", "(he gives PORTIA BASSANIOs ring) Sir, youre lucky I caught up with you. Bassanio thought about it some more and sent this ring to you. He would like to invite you to dinner."), ("Portia", "I cant have dinner with him. Please tell him I accept his ring with thanks. And could you please take my servant to old Shylocks house?"), ("Gratiano", "Ill do that."), ("Nerissa", "(to PORTIA) Sir, may I speak with you? (speaking so that only PORTIAcan hear) Ill see if I can get my husbands ring, which I made him swear to keep forever."), ("Portia", "(to NERISSA) I bet youll be able to. Theyll swear they gave the rings to men. But well deny it and outswear them too. Go, hurry. You know where Ill be waiting."), ("Nerissa", "(to GRATIANO) Sir, will you show me to Shylocks house now?"), ("Lorenzo", "The moons bright tonight. I think that on a night like this, when the wind blew the trees so gently that they didnt make a sound, TroilusTroilus was the son of King Priam of Troy. His lover, Cressida, was sent to the Greek camp, where she betrayed him. Troilus climbed up onto the walls of Troy and sighed for Cressida in the Greek camp."), ("Jessica", "On a night like this, ThisbeThisbe had agreed to meet her lover Pyramus, but was frightened away by a lion. Pyramus killed himself because he thought the lion had eaten her, and Thisbe killed herself when she found Pyramus dead. Thisbe saw the lions shadow and ran away in fear."), ("Lorenzo", "On a night like this, DidoDido, the queen of Carthage, was abandoned by her lover Aeneas. Dido stood holding a willow branch on the seashore, begging her lover to come back to her in Carthage."), ("Jessica", "On a night like this, MedeaMedea used her magic to help her lover, Jasons father. Later, Jason betrayed her, and she murdered their children in revenge. Medea gathered magic herbs to rejuvenate old Aeson."), ("Lorenzo", "On a night like this, Jessica ran away from the wealthy Jew and stole his money. She ran away from Venice all the way to Belmont with her spendthrift lover."), ("Jessica", "On a night like this, young Lorenzo swore he loved her very much, stealing her heart with vows of love, but not one vow was true."), ("Lorenzo", "On a night like this, pretty Jessica, in a bad mood, said outrageously wrong things about her lover, and he forgave her."), ("Jessica", "Id get the better of you in this storytelling game, but somebodys coming. I hear his footsteps."), ("Lorenzo", "Who are you, coming so fast in this quiet night?"), ("Stephano", "A friend."), ("Lorenzo", "A friend? What friend? Whats your name, please, friend?"), ("Stephano", "My names Stephano, and Ive come to tell you my mistress will arrive here at Belmont before sunrise. Shes still at the monastery, kneeling and praying for a happy marriage."), ("Lorenzo", "Whos coming with her?"), ("Stephano", "No one except her maid and a holy hermit. Has my master returned yet?"), ("Lorenzo", "No, he hasnt, and we havent heard from him. But lets go in, Jessica. Well get ready to welcome the mistress of the house back home."), ("Launcelot", "Hey, hey! Hey! Yoo-hoo!"), ("Lorenzo", "Whos shouting?"), ("Launcelot", "Hey! Have you seen Master Lorenzo! Master Lorenzo, hey! Hey!"), ("Lorenzo", "Stop hollering, man! Im here."), ("Launcelot", "Hey! Where, where?"), ("Lorenzo", "Here."), ("Launcelot", "Tell him a messenger has arrived from my master with good news. My master will be here in the morning."), ("Lorenzo", "My dear, lets go inside and wait for them to arrive. But I guess it doesnt matter. Why should we go in? Stephano, tell the household staff that your mistress is about to arrive, and bring some musicians outside here. How beautiful the moonlights shining on this bank! Lets sit here and let the music fill our ears. Stillness and nighttime are perfect for beautiful music. Sit down, Jessica. Look at the stars, see how the floor of heaven is inlaid with small disks of bright gold. Stars and planets move in such perfect harmony that some believe you can hear music in their movement. If you believe this, even the smallest star sings like an angel in its motion. Souls have that same kind of harmony. But because were here on earth in our earthly bodies, we cant hear it. Wake up the moon goddess with a hymn! Get her attention and draw her home with music."), ("Jessica", "Im never in the mood to laugh when I hear sweet music."), ("Lorenzo", "Thats because your soul is paying attention to the music. Take a wild herd of animals, or young untrained colts, leaping around like crazy, roaring and neighing loudly, which they have to do because its in their bloodbut if they happen to hear a trumpet, or any kind of music, they all stand still. Sweet music makes their wild eyes peaceful. Thats why the poet Ovid wrote that the great musician Orpheus could make trees, stones, and rivers come to him by playing music. Theres nothing in the world that can resist music. The man who cant be moved by the harmonious melodies is fit only for treason, violence, and pillage. His soul is as dull as night and dark as the underworld. Nobody like that should be trusted. Pay attention to the music."), ("Portia", "That light we see is coming from my hall. Look how far that little candle sends its light! Thats the way a good deed shines in a naughty world."), ("Nerissa", "While the moon was shining we didnt even notice the candle."), ("Portia", "Well, brighter lights always dim the smaller ones. A governor shines as brightly as a king until a king is near by, and the governor suddenly looks like a nobody. Music, listen!"), ("Nerissa", "Its your music, madam, from your house."), ("Portia", "Now I see that you cant call anything good except in right context. I think that music sounds much better at night than it does during the day."), ("Nerissa", "The nights silence makes it sound better."), ("Portia", "The crow sings as well as the lark when no ones listening. If the nightingale sang during the day, when every goose is honking, nobody would think it sang any better than a wren. How many things in life seem good to us because of when they happen! Quiet now! Look how the moon seems to be sleeping with its lover and cant be awoken!"), ("Lorenzo", "If Im not mistaken, thats Portias voice."), ("Portia", "He recognizes me like a blind man recognizes a cuckooby its bad voice."), ("Lorenzo", "Dear lady, welcome home."), ("Portia", "Weve been praying for our husbands' welfare. We hope theyre better off because of our prayers. Have they come back?"), ("Lorenzo", "No, ma'am, they havent. But a messenger came ahead to tell us they were on their way."), ("Portia", "Go inside, Nerissa. Tell my servants not to mention that we were gone. You must not, either, Lorenzoor you, Jessica."), ("Lorenzo", "Your husbands near. I hear his trumpet. Were not tattle-tales, madam, dont worry."), ("Portia", "I think this night is just like sick daylight. It only looks a little paler. It looks like a day when the sun is hidden."), ("Bassanio", "(to PORTIA) If you walked outside at night, it would be daylight here at the same time as on the other side of the world."), ("Portia", "Ill give lightLight could mean having loose morals.light to men, but Ill never be light or unchaste. An unfaithful wife makes a husband worry, and Ill never let Bassanio worry if I can help it. I hope God figures it all out! Welcome home, my husband."), ("Bassanio", "Thank you, darling. Id like to introduce you to my friend. This is Antonio, my dearest friend. We are closely tied."), ("Portia", "You should be tied to him, since he tied himself up so much for you."), ("Antonio", "But Ive been paid back well."), ("Portia", "Sir, welcome to our house. But action speaks louder than words, so Ill cut short these polite words."), ("Gratiano", "(to NERISSA) I swear by that moon over there that youre doing me wrong! Im telling the truth! I gave it to the judges clerk. I wish the guy I gave it to had been castrated, since youre getting so upset about it."), ("Portia", "What, an argument already? Whats the matter?"), ("Gratiano", "Were arguing about a hoop of gold, a cheap little ring she gave me, that had a little inscription on it, nothing more than a knife-makers attempt at poetry. It said, Love me and dont leave me."), ("Nerissa", "How can you talk about the quality of the poem or the value of the ring? You swore to me when I gave it to you that you would wear it till you died, and that it would be buried with you. If you didnt want to take care of it for my sake, you should have just because you made so many vows that youd take care of it. And now you claim you gave it to a judges clerk! No, I swear to God that clerk will never grow a beard on his face."), ("Gratiano", "He will if he lives long enough to become a man."), ("Nerissa", "Yes, if a woman grows up to be a man."), ("Gratiano", "I swear I gave it to a youth, a kind of boy, a little stunted boy, no taller than yourself. He was the judges clerk, a chatty boy who wanted it as a fee. I didnt have the heart to say no to him."), ("Portia", "I have to be honest with you. You were wrong to give away your wifes first gift so thoughtlessly, a thing you swore to keep on your finger and bound faithfully to your body. I gave my lover a ring and made him swear never to lose it or give it away. And here he is. Id swear he wouldnt leave it behind, or even take it off his finger, for all the money in the world. To tell the truth, Gratiano, youre giving your wife a valid reason to get upset. If it were me, Id be very upset too."), ("Bassanio", "(to himself) Maybe I should cut off my left hand and swear I lost the ring defending it."), ("Gratiano", "Bassanio gave his ring to the judge who asked for it, and deserved it too. And then his clerk, who went to a lot of trouble with the writing, begged for mine. Neither of them would take anything but the two rings."), ("Portia", "Which ring did you give away, my lord? Not the one I gave you, I hope."), ("Bassanio", "If I could make things better by lying, Id deny it. But you see my finger doesnt have the ring on it. Its gone."), ("Portia", "Just as theres no ring on your finger, theres no truth in your heart. I swear Ill never get into your bed until I see the ring again!"), ("Nerissa", "(to GRATIANO) Me neither, until I see mine again!"), ("Bassanio", "My dear Portia, if you knew who I gave the ring to, for whose sake I gave the ring to him, why I gave it to him, and how unwilling I was to leave it when he wouldnt accept anything but the ring, you wouldnt be so angry."), ("Portia", "If youd known how much that ring meant, how much the woman who gave it to you is worth, or how much your honor depended on your keeping the ring, you wouldnt have let it go. Who would be so unreasonable as to insist on taking the ring if youd defended it with any kind of zeal? Who would have had so little self-restraint that theyd insist on getting a ring with ceremonial value? Nerissas got the right idea. Ill bet my life you gave some woman the ring!"), ("Bassanio", "No, I swear, madam. No woman got it from me, but an expert in civil law who refused three thousand ducats but asked instead for the ring, which I denied him. I watched him leave looking discontented, even though he had saved the life of my good friend. What could I say, my dear? I had to send it to him. I was ashamed and wanted to show my good manners. I just couldnt dishonor myself by acting ungrateful to him. Please forgive me, good lady. If youd been there, I think you would have begged me to give him the ring."), ("Portia", "Dont let that lawyer ever come near my house! Since he has the jewel I loved, which you swore youd keep forever, Ill be as generous as you were to him. I wont deny him anything of mine, including my own body and my husbands bed. Ill recognize him all right, Im sure of it. So dont spend one night away from this house. Watch me like a hawk. If you dont, if Im left alone, I swear Ill have that legal expert as my bedfellow."), ("Nerissa", "(to GRATIANO) And Ill have his clerk as mine. So be careful when you leave me to my own devices."), ("Gratiano", "Well, go ahead. But dont let me catch him, because if I do Ill break that clerks pen."), ("Antonio", "All these quarrels are about me."), ("Portia", "Dont be upset. Youre welcome in our home in spite of everything thats going on."), ("Bassanio", "Portia, forgive me for this mistake that I had to make. All these friends are my witnesses, so I swear to you, I swear by your beautiful eyes, in which I see myself reflected"), ("Portia", "Did you hear that! He sees himself in my two eyes, so theres two of him. He should swear by his two-faced self, and thats an oath Ill believe!"), ("Bassanio", "No, just listen to me. If you forgive my mistake, I swear Ill never break an oath with you again."), ("Antonio", "I lent my body once to make him rich. If it hadnt been for the gentleman who now owns your husbands ring, my body wouldve been lost. Id be the guarantee again, promising my soul this time as penalty, if your husband ever breaks a vow again knowingly."), ("Portia", "(she gives ANTONIO a ring) Then youll be my guarantee. Give him this. And tell him to hold on to it better than the other one."), ("Antonio", "(he gives BASSANIO PORTIAs ring) Here, Bassanio, swear that youll keep this ring."), ("Bassanio", "My God, its the same one I gave the judge!"), ("Portia", "I got it from him. Im sorry, Bassanio, but the legal expert slept with me in exchange for this ring."), ("Nerissa", "(she takes out a ring) And Im sorry too, Gratiano, but that stunted lawyers clerk slept with me last night in exchange for this ring. gratiano This is like fixing roads in the summer when they dont need to be fixed! What, did you cheat on us before we deserved it?"), ("Portia", "Dont be crass. You all look confused. (she takes out a letter) Heres a letter. Read it at your leisure. It comes from Padua, from Bellario. Youll find out that Portia was the lawyer, and Nerissa was her clerk. Lorenzo here will testify that I left the house right when you did, and just returned. I havent yet entered my house. Antonio, welcome. I have better news than you expect in store for you. (she gives ANTONIO another letter) Open this letter. Youll find out that three of your ships have suddenly arrived in the harbor loaded with a great deal of wealth. Youll never guess what a strange coincidence it was that I came across this letter."), ("Antonio", "Im speechless."), ("Bassanio", "(to PORTIA) You were the doctor, and I didnt even recognize you?"), ("Gratiano", "(to NERISSA) Were you the clerk with whom my wifes going to cheat on me?"), ("Nerissa", "Yes, but the clerk will never do it, unless he grows up to be a man."), ("Bassanio", "(to PORTIA) My sweet lawyer, youll be my bedfellow. When Im not there, you can sleep with my wife."), ("Antonio", "Madam, youve given me life and given me a living too. Ive read in this letter that my ships have safely come to harbor."), ("Portia", "How are you, Lorenzo? My clerk has some comforting news for you, too."), ("Nerissa", "Yes, and Ill give it to him for free. (she gives LORENZO a document) This is from the rich Jew, for you and Jessica. Its a special testament. After he dies, youll inherit everything he owns."), ("Lorenzo", "Ladies, youre dropping bread from the heavens to starving people."), ("Portia", "Its almost morning, but Im sure youre not fully satisfied about what happened. Lets go inside and well answer all your questions truthfully."), ("Gratiano", "All right, then. My first question for Nerissa is whether shed rather wait till tomorrow night or go to bed now, since there are only two more hours till morning. When the day comes, Ill wish it were nighttime, so I could sleep with the legal experts clerk. In any case, I wont worry about anything for the rest of my life more than keeping Nerissas ring safe.")]