[("Richard", "Now all of my familys troubles have come to a glorious end, thanks to my brother, King Edward IV. All the clouds that threatened the York family have vanished and turned to sunshine. Now we wear the wreaths of victory on our heads. Weve taken off our armor and weapons and hung them up as decorations. Instead of hearing trumpets call us to battle, we dance at parties. We get to wear easy smiles on our faces rather than the grim expressions of war. Instead of charging toward our enemies on armored horses, we dance for our ladies in their chambers, accompanied by sexy songs on the lute. But Im not made to be a seducer, or to make faces at myself in the mirror. I was badly made and dont have the looks to strut my stuff in front of pretty sluts. Ive been cheated of a nice body and face, or even normal proportions. I am deformed, spit out from my mothers womb prematurely and so badly formed that dogs bark at me as I limp by them. Im left with nothing to do in this weak, idle peacetime, unless I want to look at my lumpy shadow in the sun and sing about that. Since I cant amuse myself by being a lover, Ive decided to become a villain. Ive set dangerous plans in motion, using lies, drunken prophecies, and stories about dreams to set my brother Clarence and the king against each other. If King Edward is as honest and fair-minded as I am deceitful and cruel, then Clarence is going to be locked away in prison today because of a prophecy that GEdward interprets G to mean George, Duke of Clarence, though ironically it could just as well mean Richard, Duke of Gloucester. G will murder Edwards children. Oh, time to hide what Im thinkinghere comes Clarence. Good afternoon, brother. Why are you surrounded by these armed guards?"), ("Clarence", "His majesty is so concerned about my personal safety that he has ordered them to conduct me to the TowerThe Tower of London, where political prisoners were kept. Tower."), ("Richard", "Youre being arrested? Why?"), ("Clarence", "Because my name is George."), ("Richard", "Thats not your fault! He should imprison the person who named you, instead. Maybe the king is sending you to the Tower to have you renamed. But, really, whats going on, Clarence? Can you tell me?"), ("Clarence", "Ill tell you as soon as I know, Richard, because at this point I have no idea. All Ive been able to find out is that our brother the king has been listening to prophecies and dreams. He picked out the letter G from the alphabet and said a wizard told him that G will take the throne away from his children. He thinks G is me. Ive learned that this, along with other frivolous reasons like it, is what prompted the king to send me to prison."), ("Richard", "Well, this is what happens when men let themselves be ruled by women. The king isnt the one sending you to the Tower, Clarence. Its his wife, Lady Grey, who got him to do this. Remember how she and her brother, Anthony Woodeville, made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower? Hastings was just released. Were not safe, Clarence, were not safe."), ("Clarence", "By God, I think the only people who are safe are the queens own relatives and the late-night messengers the king uses to fetch his mistress, Mistress Shore. Did you hear how Lord Hastings had to beg the queen to be freed?"), ("Richard", "Hastings got his freedom by bowing down to that goddess. And Ill tell you what. If we want to stay in the kings good graces, were going have to act like the mistresssRichard implies that Mistress Shore and the queen did not belong to the rank of gentry.mistresss servants, too. Ever since our brother made them gentlewomen, Mistress Shore and the queen have become mighty busybodies in our kingdom."), ("Brakenbury", "I beg your pardon, my lords, but the king gave me orders that no one, however high in rank, should speak privately to Clarence."), ("Richard", "All right. If you like, Brakenbury, you can listen to anything we say. Were not saying anything treasonous, man. We say the king is wise and good, and his noble queen is getting old, pretty, and not jealous. And that Mr. Shores wife has nice feet, cherry lips, pretty eyes, and a very pleasant way of expressing herself. And, finally, that the queens relatives have all been elevated in rank. What do you think? Is there anything inaccurate in that?"), ("Brakenbury", "I have nothing to do with what youre talking about, my lord."), ("Richard", "Nothing to do with Mrs. Shore! I tell you, mister, theres only one man who gets to do nothing,To do nothing, or naught, meant to have sex. Richard is playing off Brakenburys innocent, frightened remark.nothing, with her and not be punished for it. Everyone else had better keep their nothings to themselves."), ("Brakenbury", "Who is that, my lord?"), ("Richard", "Her husband, you rascal. Are you going to get me in trouble?"), ("Brakenbury", "I beg your GraceGrace is a title of address for nobility and royalty and might apply to a king, queen, duke, duchess, or archbishop. Grace to pardon me, and now please stop talking to Clarence."), ("Clarence", "We know you have a job to do, Brakenbury, and well do what you say."), ("Richard", "We are required to serve the queen, and we must obey her. Farewell, brother. I will go to the king and do whatever you want me to, even if its to call my brothers wife sister, in order to set you free. But just so you know, I am very angry about how our own brother has treated you, angrier than you can imagine."), ("Clarence", "It doesnt make either of us happy, I know."), ("Richard", "Well, your imprisonment wont last long. I will either get you out, lying if I have to, or stay in prison in your place. In the meantime, be patient."), ("Clarence", "I have no choice. Goodbye."), ("Richard", "Go walk the path that you will never return from. Dumb, honest Clarence. I love you so much that Ill send your soul to heaven very soonif heaven will accept anything from me, that is. But whos coming? The newly released Hastings?"), ("Hastings", "Good afternoon, my dear lord!"), ("Richard", "The same to you, my lord! Welcome to the open air again. How did you tolerate prison?"), ("Hastings", "With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must. But I will live to thank those who sent me there."), ("Richard", "No doubt, no doubt. And so will Clarence, for your enemies are his enemies, and they have gotten the upper hand of him as well as of you."), ("Hastings", "Its a shame that we eagles are caged up while the vultures are free to do whatever they please."), ("Richard", "Whats the news abroad?"), ("Hastings", "No news as bad as the news at home: The king is sickly, weak, and depressed, and his doctors are very afraid hes going to die"), ("Richard", "Now, by George, that really is terrible news. Oh, the king has abused his body with bad habits for a long time, and its finally taking its toll on him. Very sad. Where is he, in his bed?"), ("Hastings", "He is."), ("Richard", "You go ahead, and I will follow you. The king wont live, I hope. But hed better not die till Clarence is sent packing to heaven. Ill go see the king and, with carefully argued lies, get him to hate Clarence even more than he already does. If my plan succeeds, Clarence doesnt have another day to live. Then Gods free to send King Edward to heaven, too, and leave me the world to run around in! Ill marry the earl of Warwicks youngest daughter, Lady Anne. So what if I killed her husband and her father? The best way to make up for the girls losses is to become what shes lost: a husband and a father. So thats what Ill do, not because I love her but because Ill get something out of it. But Im running ahead of myself. Clarence is still alive; Edward is not only alive, hes king. Only when theyre dead can I start to count my gains."), ("Anne", "Set down your honorable load, men, if there is ever any honor in being dead. I want to mourn the cruel death of this good man. Look at the noble kings poor cold bodythe measly remains of the Lancaster family. His royal blood has drained right out of him. I hope I can talk to your ghost, Henry, without breaking church laws. I want you to hear my sorrow. My husbandAnnes husband was Prince Edward, King Henrys son and a Lancaster.husband was murdered by the same man who stabbed you. My tears now fall into the holes where your life leaked out. I curse the man who made these holes. I curse the mans heart who had the heart to stab you. And I curse the mans blood who shed your blood. I want the man who made me suffer by killing you to face a more terrible end than I could wish on spiders, toads, and all the poisonous, venomous things things alive. If he ever has a child, let it be born prematurely, and let it look like a monsterso ugly and unnatural that the sight of it frightens its own mother. And if he ever has a wife, let her be more miserable when he dies than I am now. Guards, lets continue on to Chertsey monastery, carrying this holy burden you picked up at St. Pauls monastery. When it gets too heavy, rest, and Ill lament over King Henrys corpse some more."), ("Richard", "Halt, corpse bearers, and put down your load."), ("Anne", "What wicked magician has conjured up this devil to interrupt this sacred burial rite?"), ("Richard", "Villains, set down the corpse, or Ill make a corpse of you."), ("Gentleman", "My lord, stand back and let the coffin pass."), ("Richard", "Rude dog! Stop when I command you to! And put up your weapon so its not pointing at my chest, or Ill strike you to the ground and trample on you, you beggar, for being so bold."), ("Anne", "(to the gentlemen and guards) What, are you trembling? Youre all afraid of him? Well, I cant blame you. Youre only human, after all, and mortals cant stand to look at the devil. (to RICHARD) Begone, you dreadful servant of hell. You only had power over my father-in-laws body; you cant have his soul. So get out."), ("Richard", "Sweet saint, for goodnesss sake, dont be so angry."), ("Anne", "Ugly devil, for Gods sake, get out of here and leave us alone. You have made the happy world into your hell, filling it with cursing cries and lamentations. If you enjoy looking at your awful deeds, take a look at this noteworthy example of your butcheries. Oh, gentlemen, look, look! Dead Henrys wounds have opened up and are bleeding again! Shame on you, you deformed lump. Its your presence that draws out this blood from his empty veins. Your inhuman and unnatural actions have provoked this unnatural flood of blood. Oh God, who made this blood, revenge his death! Oh earth, which soaks up this blood, revenge his death! Either let heaven send lightning to strike the murderer dead or let the earth open wide and devour him, as it does this good kings blood."), ("Richard", "Dear woman, you dont know the rules of charity. When faced with bad, youre supposed to turn it into good, and when subject to curses, youre supposed to convert them into blessings."), ("Anne", "Villain, you dont know the laws of God or of man. Even the fiercest wild animal has some touch of pity."), ("Richard", "If I know nothing about pity, that must mean Im not an animal."), ("Anne", "Its amazing to hear a devil speak the truth!"), ("Richard", "Its even stranger when an angel is so angry. Divine, perfect woman, give me a chance to prove in detail that Im innocent of the evils you accuse me of."), ("Anne", "Contagious infection of humanity, give me a chance to condemn you for the evils I know youve committed."), ("Richard", "You who are beautiful beyond words, calm down and let me explain myself."), ("Anne", "You who are wicked beyond belief, the only explanation Ill accept from you is for you to hang yourself."), ("Richard", "Such an expression of despair would only prove that I was guilty."), ("Anne", "Maybe, but if you killed yourself, it would also show that you felt some guilt for killing others."), ("Richard", "Lets say I didnt kill them."), ("Anne", "Then you might as well say theyre not dead. But they are dead, and you killed them, you slave of the devil."), ("Richard", "I did not kill your husband."), ("Anne", "Well, then he must be alive."), ("Richard", "No, he is dead. Edward killed him."), ("Anne", "Youre lying. Queen Margaret saw your sword steaming with his blood. It was the same sword you almost killed her withand you would have killed her if my brothers hadnt fought you off."), ("Richard", "She provoked me with her lying mouth, accusing me of crimes I didnt commit."), ("Anne", "No, what provoked you was your own bloody mind, which never thinks about anything but butchering. You killed this king, didnt you?"), ("Richard", "Yes, Ill grant you that."), ("Anne", "Youll grant me, you hedgehog? Then let God grant me that youll be damned for that wicked deed. Oh, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous."), ("Richard", "That will please God, who has him now."), ("Anne", "He is in heaven, where you will never go."), ("Richard", "Let him thank me, who helped him get there. Hes better suited to be there than here."), ("Anne", "And youre not suited for any place except hell."), ("Richard", "Yes, and one other place, if youll only let me name it."), ("Anne", "Some dungeon."), ("Richard", "Your bedroom."), ("Anne", "There is no rest to be had in any bedroom where you are!"), ("Richard", "Exactly, madam, until I sleep with you."), ("Anne", "I hopeAnne assumes that shes never going to sleep with him.hope youre right."), ("Richard", "I know I am. But, gentle Lady Anne, lets stop this rapid-fire argument and move more slowly. Isnt the person who caused the untimely deaths of these two PlantagenetsPlantagenet was the name of the royal family that ruled England from the twelfth to the fifteenth centuries. Both the Lancasters, the family to which Lady Annes husband and father-in-law belonged, and the Yorks, the family to which Richard and his brothers belong, are descended from the Plantagenets. Plantagenets, Henry and Edward, as much to blame as the person who actually executed the murders?"), ("Anne", "Youre both those peopleresponsible for both cause and effect."), ("Richard", "Your beauty caused what I did. It haunted me in my sleep. I would have killed the whole world just to be able spend one hour next to you."), ("Anne", "If I believed you, murderer, I would take my nails and scratch that beauty right off my cheeks."), ("Richard", "I couldnt stand to see you destroy your beauty; you wont touch it as long as Im standing next to you. Just as everyone becomes cheerful from the sun, Im cheered up by your looks. They are my daylight, my life."), ("Anne", "Then I hope night shadows your day, and death takes your life!"), ("Richard", "Dont damn yourself. You, fair lady, are both my day and my life."), ("Anne", "I wish I were, so I could deprive you of both day and life."), ("Richard", "Its strange that you want to take revenge on the person who loves you."), ("Anne", "Its just and reasonable that I want to take revenge on the person who killed my husband."), ("Richard", "The man who killed your husband, dear lady, only did it to help you get a better husband."), ("Anne", "There is no better one on earth."), ("Richard", "Wrong. There is a man who loves you better than your husband could."), ("Anne", "Name him."), ("Richard", "Plantagenet."), ("Anne", "Yes, thats my husbands name."), ("Richard", "Someone else has the same name, but hes a better man."), ("Anne", "Where is this man?"), ("Richard", "Here. Why do you spit at me?"), ("Anne", "If only I could spit poison."), ("Richard", "Poison never came from such a sweet place."), ("Anne", "Poison never landed on such an ugly toad. Get out of my sight! Youre poisoning my eyes."), ("Richard", "Your beautiful eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine with love."), ("Anne", "I wish my eyes were basilisksBasilisks were mythical creatures whose glances killed the people they landed on.basilisks, so they could strike you dead!"), ("Richard", "I wish they were, so that I could die right now, because, at this point, I live a living death. Your eyes have made me cry, shamefully, like a child. I never cried before this. I didnt cry when my father, York, and my brother Edward both wept at the death of my brother Rutland, whom Clifford slaughtered. And when your warrior-father recounted the sad story of my fathers death, pausing to sob twenty times in the course of the story so that all the bystanders ended up dripping tears like trees in a rainstormeven then, I refused to cry. But your beauty has made me cry until I couldnt see. I never tried to win over a friend or enemy with sweet words. Im too proud for that. But if your beauty is the reward for sweet talk, Ill talk. Dont curl your lips in scorn. They were made for kissing, not for contempt. If your vengeful heart cant forgive me, heretake my sword and bury it in my heart so that my soul, which adores you, can be free. I open myself to being stabbed. In fact, I beg for death on my knees. No, dont pause, because I did kill King Henry, though it was your beauty that made me do it. Go ahead. And it was me who stabbed young Edward, though it was your heavenly face that set me to work. Take up the sword again, or take me up."), ("Anne", "Get up, liar. Though I wish you were dead, Im not going to be the one to kill you."), ("Richard", "(rising) Then tell me to kill myself, and I will."), ("Anne", "I have already."), ("Richard", "You said it when you were furious. Say it againjust one word, and my hand, which killed your lover out of love, will kill your far truer lover. You will be an accessory to both crimes."), ("Anne", "I wish I knew what was in your heart."), ("Richard", "Ive told you."), ("Anne", "I fear that your words and your heart are both false."), ("Richard", "Then no man has ever been honest."), ("Anne", "Well, then, put your sword away."), ("Richard", "Tell me that youll accept my love."), ("Anne", "Youll know about that later."), ("Richard", "But can I have some hope?"), ("Anne", "Id like to think all men have some hope."), ("Richard", "Please wear this ring."), ("Anne", "Ill take the ring, but dont assume Im giving you anything in return."), ("Richard", "See how my ring encircles your finger? Thats how your heart embraces my poor heart. Wear both the ring and my heart, because both are yours. And if I, your poor devoted servant, may ask you for one small favor, you will guarantee my happiness forever."), ("Anne", "Whats that?"), ("Richard", "Please leave it to me to take care of the burial, as I have more reason to mourn than you do. Meanwhile go to my estate at Crosby Place. After I have performed the solemn burial rites for this noble king at Chertsey monastery and cried with regret at his grave, Ill hurry to meet you. For various reasons that must remain secret, please do this for me."), ("Anne", "Ill do it with all my heart. Im happy to see youve come to repent for what youve done. Tressel and Berkeley, come with me."), ("Richard", "Say goodbye to me."), ("Anne", "Its more than you deserve. But since youre already teaching me how to flatter you, pretend Ive said goodbye already."), ("Richard", "Sirs, take up the corpse."), ("Gentleman", "Toward Chertsey, noble lord?"), ("Richard", "No, to the Whitefriars monastery. Wait for me there. Has anyone ever courted a woman in this state of mind? And has anyone ever won her, as Ive done? Ill get her, but I wont keep her long. What! I, who killed her husband and his father, managed to win her over when her hatred for me was strongest, while shes swearing her head off, sobbing her eyes out, and the bloody corpse, proof of why she should hate me, right in front of her? She has God, her conscience, and my own acts against me, and I have nothing on my side but the ugly devil and my false looks. And yet, against all odds, I win her over! Ha! Has she already forgotten her brave husband, Prince Edward, whom I stabbed on the battlefield three months ago in my anger? The world will never again produce such a sweet, lovely gentleman. He was graced with lots of natural gifts, he was young, valiant, wise, and no doubt meant to be king. And yet she cheapens herself by turning her gaze on me, who cut her sweet princes life short and made her a widow? On me, though I am barely half the man that Edward was? On me, though I am limping and deformed? I bet Ive been wrong about myself all this time. Even though I dont see it, this lady thinks Im a marvelously good-looking man. Time to buy myself a mirror and employ a few dozen tailors to dress me up in the current fashions. Since Im suddenly all the rage, it will be worth the cost. But first, Ill dump this fellow in his grave, then return to my love weeping with grief. Come out, beautiful sununtil Ive bought a mirror to admire my reflection in, Ill watch my shadow as I stroll along."), ("Rivers", "Be patient, madam. Im sure his majesty will recover his health soon."), ("Grey", "Youll only make him worse with all your worry. For Gods sake, let people comfort you. Then youll be able to cheer him up."), ("Queen elizabeth", "If he were dead, what would happen to me?"), ("Grey", "Nothing more than that youd lose your husband."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Losing this husband will cause me all sorts of harm."), ("Grey", "You have been blessed with an excellent son, who will comfort you when the king is dead."), ("Queen elizabeth", "But hes young, and as long as hes too young to become king, Richard, the duke of Gloucester, has power over him. Richard loves neither me nor any of you."), ("Rivers", "Has it been decided that Richard will be ProtectorA Protector acted for a king until he was old enough to rule on his own. Protector?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Its been decided, though not yet officially announced. But thats what will happen if the king dies."), ("Grey", "Here come Lord Buckingham and Lord Derby."), ("Buckingham", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Good afternoon, your royal Highness!"), ("Stanley", "I hope God makes you happy again, like you once were."), ("Queen elizabeth", "My good Lord Derby, the countess Richmond would hardly say amenBefore the Countess of Richmond was Stanleys wife, she was married to Edmund Tudor. She is the mother of the earl of Richmond, the future Henry VII, who will prove to be an important character later in this play.amen to your kind words. But dont worry. I dont hold it against you, even though shes your wife, that shes so unfriendly and arrogant."), ("Stanley", "Please dont believe the false rumors youve heard about her feelings toward you, or if theyre true, then forgive her, since shes only acting that way because shes sick, not because she hates you."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Did you see the king today, Lord Derby?"), ("Stanley", "Yes, the duke of Buckingham and I have just returned from visiting him."), ("Queen elizabeth", "What are the chances of his getting better, lords?"), ("Buckingham", "Madam, keep up hope. He seems cheerful."), ("Queen elizabeth", "God give him health. Did you talk with him?"), ("Buckingham", "Yes, madam. He wants to patch things up between Richard and your brothers, and between your brothers and Hastings. He has summoned them all."), ("Queen elizabeth", "I wish I could believe you that all was well! But Im worried that things can only go downhill from here."), ("Richard", "Theyre out to get me, and I wont stand for it! Which of you has been complaining to the king that I dont like them? By God, whoever is worrying the king with these lies doesnt love him very much. Just because I dont know how to flatter and act nice, to smile in mens faces and, as soon as their backs are turned, spread rumors about them, to bow and scrape like a nobleman trained in the French court, people have to think Im their enemy. Cant a plain man live and do no harm to anyone without being taken advantage of by a bunch of slick, sneaky lowlifes?"), ("Rivers", "Which of us are you referring to?"), ("Richard", "You, who are neither honest nor good. When did I ever do you any harm? Or you? Or you? Or any of you? Damn you all! The kingwhom I hope God will protect better than you would likecant get a minutes rest without you bothering him with your outrageous complaints."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Brother, youve made a mistake. The king himself noticed your hatred toward my children, my brothers, and myself. No one had to point it out to himits obvious. He asked people to visit him. He wanted to find out the reason for your ill will, so he could do something about it."), ("Richard", "I cant tell whats going on. The world has become so bad that now little wrens have settled where eagles used to roost. Since every peasant has been made into a nobleman, many noblemen have been dragged down to the level of peasants."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Come, come, I know what youre referring to, Richard. You resent my friends' rise in society, and my own. Lets hope we never need your help for anything."), ("Richard", "Meanwhile, were the ones who need you. My brother is imprisoned because of you, I am disgraced, and the nobility are held in contempt while those who two days ago werent worth a dime have suddenly been promoted."), ("Queen elizabeth", "By the Lord who raised me to this weighty post from the happy and carefree life I used to enjoy, I promise you I never did anything to get the king to turn against the duke of Clarence. In fact, Ive always been on his side and have pleaded for him. My lord, youre doing me a huge injustice to suggest otherwise."), ("Richard", "Oh, and Ill bet youll also deny you were responsible for Lord Hastingss recent stay in prison."), ("Rivers", "She may deny that, my lord, because"), ("Richard", "She may, Lord Rivers? Everybody knows she may. She may do a lot more than that, sir. She may help you to get many nice promotions, and then deny she helped you, claiming you won them on your own merits. What cant she do? She could even"), ("Rivers", "She could even what?"), ("Richard", "She could even what? She could marry a king, a bachelor, a handsome young lad. Certainly, your grandmother had a worse match."), ("Queen elizabeth", "My lord of Gloucester, I have suffered your blunt upbraidings and your bitterness toward me for too long. By God, I will tell the king about these taunts. I would rather be a country serving maid than a great queen if it meant I could escape your scorn and constant harassment. Ive had very little joy as Englands queen."), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) God, give her even less joy, I beg you! Elizabeth, your honor, your high rank, and your position as queenQueen Margaret is the widow of King Henry VI, who was deposed and murdered by the Yorkists.queen are all owed to me."), ("Richard", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) What! Youre threatening to tell the king? Go ahead, and dont spare a single detail. Look, what I have said to you I will repeat in the presence of the king. If it means Ill be sent to the Tower, so be it. Its time for me to speak the truth. All the pains I took on King Edwards behalf have been forgotten."), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) You devil! I remember these pains all too well. You killed my husband, Henry, in the Tower and my poor son, Edward, at Tewksbury."), ("Richard", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Before you were queenin fact, before your husband was kingI was a packhorse for his great affairs, a weeder-out of his proud enemies, a generous rewarder of his friends. In order to make his blood royal, I spent my own blood."), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) Yes, and you spent betterMargaret is referring to the deaths of her own husband and son.better blood than his or your own."), ("Richard", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) In all that time, you and your first husband, Sir John Grey, were fighting for the Lancasters. And so were you, Rivers. Elizabeth, wasnt your first husband killed while fighting in Queen Margarets army at Saint Albans? In case youve forgotten, I want to remind you where you come from and what side you were on before you arrived here. And I want you to remember whom I fought for, who I have been, and who I am."), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) You were a murderous villain, and you still are."), ("Richard", "(to ELIZABETH) Poor ClarenceIn Henry VI, Part 3, Clarence constantly shifted his loyalties from the Yorks (his own family) to th Lancasters, to which his father-inlaw belonged. Clarence abandoned his father-in-law, a Lancaster, and broke his own oathmay Jesus forgive him!"), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) May God take revenge on him!"), ("Richard", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) in order to fight on Edwards side to help him win the crown. And now he is rewarded by being thrown in prison! I wish to God my heart were made of stone, like Edwards is. Or I wish Edwards were soft and full of feeling, as mine is, so that he would let Clarence go. I am too childish, too innocent, for this world."), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) Hurry to hell, then, and leave the world alone, you demon! Hell is where your kingdom is."), ("Rivers", "My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days, which youre bringing up now to prove were your enemies, we followed the lawful king. If you were king, we would do the same."), ("Richard", "If I were king? Id rather be a peddler. The thought of being king doesnt appeal to me in the least."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Youre right to imagine that being this countrys leader brings no pleasure. As queen, I have felt none."), ("Queen margaret", "(speaking so no one else can hear) No pleasure for the queen, indeed: I am the real queen, and the experience is completely joyless. I can no longer hold my tongue. Hear me, you wrangling pirates. Youre quarreling over what doesnt even belong to youyou stole it from me! Which of you does not tremble when you see me? If you arent trembling because you know I am queen and you are my subjects, then youre shaking because you threw me from the throne! (to RICHARD) Oh highborn villain, do not turn away!"), ("Richard", "Ugly, wrinkled witch, what are you doing here?"), ("Queen margaret", "Only describing what you have ruined. Or at least thats what I plan to do before I let you go."), ("Richard", "Werent you banished on pain of death?"), ("Queen margaret", "I was. But I felt more pain from exile than I would have from being dead here at home. You, Richard, owe me a husband and a son. The rest of you owe me a kingdom. And all of you owe me allegiance. The sorrow that I feel actually belongs to you, and the high life you enjoy actually belongs to me. You stole it from me."), ("Richard", "The curse my noble warrior-fatherRichard refers to events Shakespeare dramatizes in King Henry VI, Part 3 (Act 1, Scene 4). Queen Margaret has Richards father, the third duke of York, killed. But before she kills him, she sets a paper crown on his head to mock him and hands him a rag soaked in his son Rutlands blood. He begs God to destroy her.warrior-father laid on you when you set a paper crown on his head just before slaying him has finally borne fruit. Your scorn for him was so shocking that he cried rivers. To stop up his tears, you handed him a rag soaked with the blood of his own child. God, not us, is responsible for punishing you for your bloody deed."), ("Queen elizabeth", "God is just. He rewards the innocent."), ("Hastings", "Oh, killing that child was the dirtiest, most merciless deed there ever was!"), ("Rivers", "Tyrants themselves wept when they heard about it."), ("Dorset", "Everyone understood there would be a heavy payback."), ("Buckingham", "Even NorthumberlandThe earl of Northumberland was an enemy of Richards family, the House of York. Northumberland wept to see it."), ("Queen margaret", "What, were you all snarling before I arrived, ready to catch each other by the throat like dogs, but now that Im here, you turn your hatred toward me? Did the duke of Yorks terrible curse have so much weight with God that God repaid him not only with Henrys death and my lovely Edwards death but with the loss of their kingdom and with my banishment, too? All because of what happened to that brat Rutland? If curses can pierce the clouds and enter heaven that easily, then open up, thick clouds, and listen to my curses!"), ("Queen margaret", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Though your king did not die in battle, let him die from overindulging his appetites, as my husband was murdered to make your husband king. May your son Edward, who is currently the prince of Wales, die young and violently, as payback for the death of my son Edward, the former prince of Wales. And may you outlive your glory just as miserably as I have, to make up for taking my position as queen. May you live long enough to mourn your childrens deaths and watch another woman enjoy the throne, as I now watch you. Let your happy days die long before you do. After many extended hours of grief, may you die neither a mother, a wife, nor Englands queen. Rivers, Dorset, and Lord Hastings, you all stood by as my son was stabbed. For his sake, I pray to God that none of you die a natural death but have your lives cut short by some unforeseen accident."), ("Richard", "Enough of your magic spells, you hateful, withered hag."), ("Queen margaret", "And leave you out? Dont move, dog. Its your turn now. If heaven has any plagues beyond what I can drum up, let it wait until your sinsMargaret wants Richard to die only after committing the maximum number of sins, so he can be guaranteed a greater punishment in Hell.sins are piled high and then hurl them down on you, you destroyer of a whole world of peace! May conscience eat away at your soul constantly. May you suspect your true friends of being traitors and take the worst traitors as your closest friends. May you never sleep a wink except to dream of a hell full of ugly devils."), ("Queen margaret", "You deformed, prematurely born, rooting hog, you evil birth defect, you insult to your mothers womb, you hated disgrace to your fathers sperm, you disgusting"), ("Richard", "Margaret."), ("Queen margaret", "Richard."), ("Richard", "Yes?"), ("Queen margaret", "I didnt call you."), ("Richard", "I beg your pardonI thought it was me whom you were calling all those terrible names."), ("Queen margaret", "Yes, I was, but I dont want an answer from you. Let me finish my curse."), ("Richard", "Ive finished it for you, and it ends in Margaret."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Hes turned your curse against you, Margaret."), ("Queen margaret", "Poor imitation queen, why do you align yourself with this humpbacked spider when hes got you trapped in his deadly web? Fool! Youre sharpening a knife to cut yourself. The day will come when youll wish I could help you cast spells against this poisonous, hunchbacked toad."), ("Hastings", "Woman, stop your frantic curses and false prophesies before we run out of patience and do something bad to you."), ("Queen margaret", "Shame on you; Ive already run out of patience with you all."), ("Rivers", "If you got what you deserved, you would learn some respect."), ("Queen margaret", "What I deserve is that you treat me like a queen, and what you deserve is to act like my subjects. Give me what I deserve, and do your duty!"), ("Dorset", "(to RIVERS) Dont argue with her. Shes crazy."), ("Queen margaret", "Enough from you, mister, youre being impertinent. Unlike those born into nobility, your claim to royalty is so recent that you hardly even know what it means to lose it. People in high positions are shaken by many blasts of wind, and when they fall, they shatter into pieces."), ("Richard", "Good advice, indeed. Take it to heart, Dorset."), ("Dorset", "It applies to you as much as to me, my lord."), ("Richard", "Yes, and much more so. But I was born that high. Like an eagle, which builds its nest at the top of a high tree, I play in the wind and am not afraid to look at the sun."), ("Queen margaret", "But you turn that sun into a shadow. Take my son, for example. He is dead now. You put out his bright life forever. You are building your nest in our nest. Oh God whos watching, dont let him get away with this! He won his position violently. Let him lose it that way, too."), ("Buckingham", "Stopif you cant be kind, at least have some shame."), ("Queen margaret", "How dare you talk about kindness or shame. (to the others) You have only been unkind to me, and you have shamefully butchered my hopes. My kindness to you is to be outraged at what has happened, and my sad, sad shame is in what you have done to my life."), ("Buckingham", "Enough, enough."), ("Queen margaret", "Oh noble Buckingham, Ill kiss your hand to show my friendship and support for you. I wish only good things upon you and your noble family! Your clothes arent spattered with my familys blood, and you arent affected by my curse."), ("Buckingham", "No one here is affected by your curse, because curses are just words with no power."), ("Queen margaret", "I think they rise up to heaven and arouse God from his gentle sleep. (so that only BUCKINGHAM hears) Oh Buckingham, watch out for that dog, Richard! When he seems to be fawning on you, hes actually about to bite. And his poisonous bite kills. Have nothing to do with him. Beware of him. All the powers of sin, death, and hell are doing his bidding."), ("Richard", "What is she saying, my lord?"), ("Buckingham", "Nothing that interests me, my good lord."), ("Queen margaret", "What, you ignore my kind advice and try to please the devil Im warning you about? Oh, just remember this another day, when he splits your heart in two with sorrow. Then youll say poor Margaret was a prophet. Richard will come to hate everyone here, as you will come to hate himand as God will come to hate you all."), ("Buckingham", "Her curses have made my hair stand on end."), ("Rivers", "Mine, too. I dont understand why shes not locked up."), ("Richard", "I cant blame her. She has been wronged too often. I regret what I have done to hurt her."), ("Queen elizabeth", "I never caused her any harm, as far as I know."), ("Richard", "But you have all the advantages from the harm done. For my part, I was too eager to do King Edward good. He doesnt even seem to notice now. And look how hes repaid poor Clarence for his loyaltypenned him up like a pig being fattened for slaughter. God pardon those who are responsible for Clarences troubles."), ("Rivers", "Thats very virtuous and Christian of you, Richard, to pray for those who have done us harm."), ("Richard", "I always pray for them (to himself) because they are none other than myself. If I cursed Clarences wrongdoers, Id be cursing myself."), ("Catesby", "Madam, his majesty asks for you, and for you, Duke of Gloucester, and for you, my noble lords."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Catesby, well be there soon. Lords, will you come with me?"), ("Rivers", "We will wait on you, your majesty."), ("Richard", "Incredible. I do the wrong and am the first to start quarrels. What I did in secret I blame on others. I cry about Clarence, whom I had imprisoned, in front of these simple foolsnamely, Hastings, Derby and Buckinghamand tell them that the queen and her allies roused the king against my brother Clarence. They believe me and urge me to take revenge on Rivers, Vaughan, and Grey. But then I sigh and quote a chunk of the Biblehow God says do good in return for evil. Ha! Dressing my out-and-out wickedness in scraps of Scripture, I look like a saint exactly when Im most like the devil. But quiet. Here come the murderers Ive hired. Hows it going, hardy, reliable friends! Are you going to take care of this thing now?"), ("First murderer", "We are, my lord. Weve come to get the warrant so we can be let into his cell."), ("Richard", "Good thinking. I have it on me here. (he hands over the warrant) When youre done, go to Crosby Place. But, sirs, do the job fast. And stick to your mission. Dont let him plead for his life, because Clarence is a good talker and may make you pity him if you let him get started."), ("First murderer", "Tut, tut, my lord, were not going to stand around chit-chatting. Talkers arent good doers. Rest assured that were going there to use our hands, not our tongues."), ("Richard", "When fools cry, you remain stony. I like you guys. Go straight to work. Hurry now, get the job done."), ("Murderers", "We will, my noble lord."), ("Keeper", "Why do you look so depressed today, your Grace?"), ("Clarence", "Oh, I had a miserable night. I had such dark and terrifying dreams that I swear I wouldnt spend another night like that if it guaranteed me a whole lifetime of happy days."), ("Keeper", "What was your dream? Tell me."), ("Clarence", "I thought I had escaped from the Tower and was on a ship to France with my brother Richard, who persuaded me to leave my cabin and walk on deck with him. Looking toward England, we reminisced about the countless frightening experiences wed had in the wars between the Yorks and the Lancasters. As we were pacing the deck, which was tipping heavily, Richard seemed to stumble, and as I tried to grab hold of him and keep him from falling, he knocked me overboard into the crashing waves. Lord, how painful it was to drown. The sound of the rushing water was terrible, and so were the sights. I saw a thousand shipwrecks, a thousand men whom fish had gnawed to the bone, huge anchors, chunks of gold, heaps of pearls, and precious jewelsall scattered on the bottom of the sea."), ("Clarence", "Some of the gems had wedged themselves like imitation eyes into the dead mens skulls. The fake eyes gazed dully at the bones scattered around."), ("Keeper", "So you had time as you were dying to look around?"), ("Clarence", "I thought I did, and I often tried to die. But the terrible water always held me back. It wouldnt let my soul find its way to air but smothered it inside my gasping body. My body wanted so badly to vomit up my spirit that it almost burst."), ("Keeper", "And didnt you wake up during this terrible agony?"), ("Clarence", "Oh, no, my dream went on even after I died. In fact, the real nightmare had only just begun. With the help of the grim ferrymanAccording to Greek mythology, an old man, Charon, ferries the dead across the river Styx to Hades, the underworld for the good and bad alike. Shakespeare adds a certain Christian flavor here to alter this tradition: the underworld of Clarences dream is hellish.ferryman that poets like to write about, my soul crossed the river into the kingdom of endless night. The first to greet me there was my great father-in-lawClarence abandoned Warwick, who fought for the Lancasters, to join forces with his own brother King Edward IV.father-in-law, the famous earl of Warwick. He cried aloud, What terrible punishment can this dark realm devise for the oath-breaker Clarence? And he vanished. Then a ghost like an angel with its hair spattered in blood wandered by, and shieked,"), ("Clarence", "Clarence has arrivedlying, cowardly ClarenceThe ghost in Clarences dream was Prince Edward, Queen Margarets and King Henry VIs son. Clarence helped kill Prince Edward. Clarence, who stabbed me at Tewksbury. Grab him, avenging spirits, and torment him. With that, a legion of ugly demons surrounded me and howled so loudly in my ears that I woke up trembling and for a long time thought I was still in hell."), ("Keeper", "Im not surprised it scared you, my lord. It scares me just to hear you talk about it."), ("Clarence", "Oh, keeper, keeper, the bad things Ive done are finally taking their toll. I did them for Edwards sakeand look how he rewards me. Oh God, if my prayers dont satisfy you, and you have to avenge the wrongs Ive done, at least punish me alone! Please spare my innocent wife and children! Kind warden, please stay with me for a while. Im feeling very low, and I need to sleep."), ("Keeper", "Ill stay, my lord. May God bring you sleep!"), ("Brakenbury", "Sorrow interrupts all hours and seasons. It turns everything aroundthe night into morning and noon into night. The only glory princes have are their titles. Instead of the pleasures we think theyre enjoying, they experience a whole world of worries. It turns out the only difference between them and peasants is their fame."), ("First murderer", "Ho! Whos there?"), ("Brakenbury", "What do you want, fellow? And how did you get in here?"), ("Second murderer", "I want to speak with Clarence, and I came here on my legs."), ("Brakenbury", "Thats it? Nothing to add?"), ("First murderer", "Well, sir, its better to say little than to be tedious. (to SECOND MURDERER) Show him our orders and keep your mouth shut."), ("Brakenbury", "It orders me to hand the noble duke of Clarence over to you. I wont ask why because Id rather not know than feel guilty if youre doing something you shouldnt be. Here are the keys, and there is the duke, sleeping. (he hands them the keys) Ill go to the king to let him know Ive handed my prisoner over to you."), ("First murderer", "You may, sir. Thats a wise idea. Goodbye."), ("Second murderer", "What, should I stab him while he sleeps?"), ("First murderer", "No. When he wakes up, hell say we killed him like cowards."), ("Second murderer", "When he wakes up! Why, he wont wake up till Judgment Day."), ("First murderer", "Okay, so thats when hell say we stabbed him in his sleep."), ("Second murderer", "That word judgment makes me feel a bit guilty."), ("First murderer", "What, are you afraid?"), ("Second murderer", "Not of killing him, because I have a warrant for it, but of being damned for killing him, which no warrant can protect me from."), ("First murderer", "I thought you were resolved to do this."), ("Second murderer", "I am resolvedto let him live."), ("First murderer", "Ill go back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so."), ("Second murderer", "Please, just wait a minute. Im hoping my holy mood will pass. It usually only lasts about twenty seconds."), ("First murderer", "How are you feeling now?"), ("Second murderer", "Actually, Im still feeling some pangs of conscience."), ("First murderer", "Remember the reward were getting when the deeds done."), ("Second murderer", "Jesus, lets kill him! I forgot about the reward."), ("First murderer", "Wheres your conscience now?"), ("Second murderer", "Oh, in the duke of Gloucesters wallet."), ("First murderer", "When he opens his wallet to give us our pay, your conscience will fly out?"), ("Second murderer", "It wont matter. Let it fly out. No one will listen to it."), ("First murderer", "And what will you do if it returns to you?"), ("Second murderer", "I wont bother with it. Conscience makes a man a coward. If he steals, it accuses him. If he wants to swear, it restrains him. If he sleeps with his neighbors wife, it exposes him. It blushes, is easily embarrassed, and stages regular uprisings in a mans heart. Its just too much trouble. It once made me return a purse full of money that I foundit turns anyone who treats it decently into a beggar. It has been thrown out of all sorts of towns and cities it visits, and anyone who wants to live well should learn to trust only himself and live without it."), ("First murderer", "My God, now the thing is at my elbow, persuading me not to kill the duke."), ("Second murderer", "Stop your conscience and dont listen to him. He wants to take over your thoughts and make you sad."), ("First murderer", "Im strong-willed. He wont get the better of me."), ("Second murderer", "Spoken like a brave man who respects his reputation. Shall we get to work?"), ("First murderer", "Well hit him on the head with the handles of our swords, then throw him in the wine barrel in the next room."), ("Second murderer", "What an excellent ideahell soak up the wine!"), ("First murderer", "Wait a moment. Hes waking up."), ("Second murderer", "Strike!"), ("First murderer", "No, first lets talk to him."), ("Clarence", "Where are you, keeper? Give me a cup of wine."), ("Second murderer", "Youll have wine enough, my lord, soon."), ("Clarence", "In Gods name, who are you?"), ("First murderer", "A man, like you."), ("Clarence", "But not a member of the royal family, like me."), ("First murderer", "And youre not loyal, like us."), ("Clarence", "Your voice is loud and commanding, but you look like a working man."), ("First murderer", "Im speaking for the king, but I look like myself."), ("Clarence", "The things you say scare me! Your eyes look threatening. And why are you so pale? Who sent you here? Why are you here?"), ("Second murderer", "To, to, to"), ("Clarence", "To murder me?"), ("Both murderers", "Yes."), ("Clarence", "You barely have the heart to tell me, so you cant possibly have the nerve to do it. Besides, how have I offended you, my friends?"), ("First murderer", "You didnt offend us, you offended the king."), ("Clarence", "He and I will make up."), ("Second murderer", "Never, my lord. So prepare to die."), ("Clarence", "Its your job in life to kill the innocent? What did I do wrong? Wheres the evidence against me? Wheres the jury, the judge, the lawful proceedings, the verdict? Who pronounced this death sentence before a court of law could even convict me? For you to threaten to kill me is most unlawful. If you hope to have your sins forgiven by Christs dear blood, which He shed for our terrible sins, you must leave and keep your hands off me. Youll go to Hell for the deed youre planning to do."), ("First murderer", "What we do we have been commanded to do."), ("Second murderer", "And the one who commands us is our king."), ("Clarence", "Wrong-headed slaves, the King of kings says in his Ten Commandments, Thou shalt not murder. Will you defy God and obey a man? Be careful. God takes revenge on those who break His laws."), ("Second murderer", "He does, and now hes taking revenge on youfor breaking promises and for murder, too. You took a holy oath to fight for King Henry VI."), ("First murderer", "And like a traitor to God, you broke that oath and savagely murdered King Henrys young son."), ("Second murderer", "Whom you swore you would protect and defend."), ("First murderer", "How dare you tell us about Gods laws when you have broken them so savagely yourself?"), ("Clarence", "But for whose sake did I do that sick deed? For my brother Edwards sake. He couldnt be sending you to murder me for that sin, because hes the one who asked me to commit it. He is as guilty as I am. If God will be revenged for this deed, he will do it publicly. God doesnt need to use indirect or illegal means to kill those who have offended him."), ("First murderer", "Then who were you working for when you killed brave, young Prince Edward?"), ("Clarence", "My brothers love, the devil, and my own anger made me do it."), ("First murderer", "Well, your brothers love, our duty, and your own crimes make us kill you."), ("Clarence", "If you love my brother, dont hate me. I am his brother, and I love him very much. If youre doing this for pay, go to my brother Richard. He will pay you more for saving my life than Edward will for killing me."), ("Second murderer", "Youre mistaken. Richard, the duke of Gloucester, hates you."), ("Clarence", "No, he loves and cherishes me. Go to him from me."), ("First murderer", "We will."), ("Clarence", "Tell him that when our noble father, the duke of York, gave his three sons his blessing, he never imagined that our friendship would come to this. Remind Richard of this, and he will weep."), ("First murderer", "Yes, hell weep stones, as he taught us to do."), ("Clarence", "Dont lie about my brother. He is kind."), ("First murderer", "Yes, as kind as snow to a harvest. Come on, youre fooling yourself. Its Richard who sent us here to slaughter you."), ("Clarence", "It cannot be. When I left him, he hugged me in his arms and swore between sobs that he would work to set me free."), ("Second murderer", "Well, thats what hes doingmaking you free to enjoy heaven."), ("First murderer", "Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord."), ("Clarence", "You have enough holy feeling to advise me to make peace with God, but youre willing to go to war with God by murdering me? Oh sirs, consider this: those who sent you to do this deed will hate you for doing it."), ("Second murderer", "(to FIRST MURDERER) What should we do?"), ("Clarence", "Relent, and save your souls. If either of you were a princes son, and you were imprisoned as I am now, and two murderers like yourselves came to youwouldnt you beg for your life? Yes, you would beg, if you were in my position."), ("First murderer", "Relent? No. Thats cowardly and womanish."), ("Clarence", "No, sticking to your plan is beastly, savage, devilish. (to SECOND MURDERER) My friend, I detect some pity in your eyes. Please, please take my side and argue for my life. What beggar wouldnt have sympathy for a prince reduced to begging?"), ("Second murderer", "Look behind you, my lord."), ("First murderer", "Take that, and that. (he stabs CLARENCE) If this wont do the job, Ill drown you in the wine barrel in the next room."), ("Second murderer", "A bloody deedPontius Pilate was the Roman governor who ordered Jesus Christ to be crucified. As if to suggest that he was washing away his own guilt, Pilate washed his hands in public before the execution.bloody deed, and desperately executed. I wish I could wash my hands of this terrible murder, like Pilate."), ("First murderer", "Whats going on? What did you mean by not helping me? By God, Im going to tell the duke how slack youve been."), ("Second murderer", "I wish you could tell him I saved his brother. Take the money yourself and tell him what I said. Im sorry this duke was killed."), ("First murderer", "Im not. Go, coward that you are. Well, Ill go hide the body in some hole until the duke gives orders for his burial. And when I get my reward, Ill get out of here. The truth about this will come out, and I cant stick around then."), ("King edward iv", "Well. Now Ive done a good days work. You must all keep up this united front. Every day I expect a message from God to bring me away from here. Now my soul can depart for heaven peacefully, since my friends have made peace here on earth. Rivers and Hastings, take each others hand. Dont simply hide your hatred. Swear your love for each other."), ("Rivers", "(taking HASTINGSs hand) I swear I have cleansed my heart of all hate. With this handshake, I guarantee my love."), ("Hastings", "On my honor, I feel the same."), ("King edward iv", "Make sure you mean what you say. Otherwise God, the ultimate King, will uncover your lies and cause you to be the death of each other."), ("Hastings", "On my honor, I swear I love Rivers with all my heart."), ("Rivers", "And I love Hastings with all my heart."), ("King edward iv", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Madam, youre not exempt from thisnor are you, Dorset nor you, Buckingham. You have had too many separate factions among you. My dear wife, let Lord Hastings kiss your hand. And dont do it merely for appearances sake."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Take my hand, Hastings. From now on, Ill forget the hatred I used to feel for you."), ("King edward iv", "Dorset, embrace Hastings. Hastings, express your affection for the marquess of Dorset."), ("Dorset", "I swear I will never break this promise of love."), ("Hastings", "And so do I, my lord."), ("King edward iv", "Now, noble Buckingham, seal this alliance by embracing my wifes friends, and make me happy in your unity."), ("Buckingham", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) If I ever turn my hatred toward your majesty, and do not love and cherish you and yours, may God punish me. May I find hatred where I most expect love. When I most need a friend, and when Im sure I have one, make him treacherous and deceitful to me. I beg God to do all this whenever I fail to show love to you or yours."), ("King edward iv", "Noble Buckingham, your promise is like medicine to my ailing heart. All we need to put the final touches on this future peace is for Richard to appear."), ("Buckingham", "And just in time, here he comes with Sir Richard Ratcliffe."), ("Richard", "Good morning to my sovereign king and queen. Noble peers, how nice to see you."), ("King edward iv", "Happy indeed, the way we have spent the day. Gloucester, we have done deeds of charity, turning enmity into peace and hate into love among these mistakenly angry nobles."), ("Richard", "What blessed work, my king. If theres anyone among this princely group who mistakes me for an enemyif by accident or in anger I have done anything to offend youI want to join with you in peaceful friendship. It kills me to be enemies with you. I hate it and want all good mens love. (to QUEEN ELIZABETH) First, madam, I want there to be peace between you and me, which I will buy with my obedient service to you. And peace with you, my noble cousin Buckingham, if you ever felt any grudge against me; and with you, Lord Rivers, and, Lord Grey, with you. In fact, I want to get along with everyone who has frowned on me without good causedukes, earls, lords, gentlemen, everyone. There is not an Englishman alive with whom Im at odds, anymore than a newborn baby would be. I thank God for my humbleness."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Today shall always be remembered as a holy day. If only all struggles ended this well. One more thing, my dear majesty. Please pardon our brother Clarence."), ("Richard", "Why, madam, have I offered you my love only to be flouted in front of the king? Who doesnt know that the good duke is dead? You do him wrong to laugh at his corpse."), ("King edward iv", "Who doesnt know hes dead? Who says he is?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Oh my God, what a terrible world this is!"), ("Buckingham", "Do I look as pale as everyone else does, Lord Dorset?"), ("Dorset", "You do, my good lord. Everyone here has turned white."), ("King edward iv", "Is Clarence dead? But I reversed the death sentence."), ("Richard", "Well, the poor man died by your first order, which was carried by a winged messenger. Some tardy cripple must have taken the counter-order, who came after Clarence was already buried. Its clear that someone less noble, less loyal, more bloody-minded than Clarence but not a blood relation, deserves as bad an end as my brother, but he goes free."), ("Stanley", "(kneeling) I ask a favor of you in return for the service Ive done, my king."), ("King edward iv", "Please be quiet. My soul is full of sorrow."), ("Stanley", "I will not rise until your Highness hears me."), ("King edward iv", "Then hurry up and tell me what you want."), ("Stanley", "That you lift the death sentence on my servant, who killed a rowdy and belligerent former servant of the duke of Norfolk."), ("King edward iv", "I was willing to condemn my brother to death, but you want me to pardon a peasant? My brother didnt kill anyone. He was only to blame for some thoughts he had. But his punishment was bitter death. Who pleaded with me to pardon his life? Who, when I was in a rage, kneeled at my feet and told me to reconsider? Who talked about brotherhood? Who talked about love? Who told me how the poor man abandoned the mighty earl of Warwick to fight for me? Who told me how he rescued me in the field at Tewksbury, when Oxford had me down, saying, Dear brother, live and be a king? Who told me how, when we both lay in the field freezing to death, he wrapped me in his own clothes and spent a numbingly cold night naked? I forgot all of this in my brutish anger, and not one of you had the grace to remind me. But when your servants get drunk and kill someone, you go right down on your knees for pardon, pardon. And, though he doesnt deserve it, I have to grant your request. But not one of you would speak up for my brother. And I didnt speak to myself on his behalf, either. The best of you owed something to him in his lifetime, but none of you would plead for his life. Oh God, I fear your justice will destroy me and all of these men, and their families and mine, because of this! Come, Hastings, help me to my room. Oh, poor Clarence."), ("Richard", "This is what happens when you act rashly. Did you notice how the queens guilty relatives turned pale when they heard about Clarences death? Oh, they continually urged the king to do it. God will revenge it. But come, lords, will you come with me to Edwards room to comfort him?"), ("Buckingham", "Well come with you, your Grace."), ("Boy", "Tell me, good grandmother, is our father dead?"), ("Duchess", "No, boy."), ("Girl", "Then why do you weep so often, and beat your breast, and cry, Oh Clarence, my unlucky son?"), ("Boy", "Why do you look at us and shake your head, and call us orphans, wretches, castaways, if our noble father is still alive?"), ("Duchess", "My pretty children, both of you misunderstand me. Im lamenting the sickness of the king, because Id hate to lose himIm not mourning your fathers death. What would be the point of crying over someone who was already dead?"), ("Boy", "So youre admitting Clarence, my father, is dead. My uncle the king is to blame for this. God will take revenge. I will pray every day that he does."), ("Girl", "And so will I."), ("Duchess", "Quiet, children, quiet. The king loves you very much. Innocent sweethearts, you have no idea whos responsible for your fathers death."), ("Boy", "Yes we do, grandmother, because my good uncle Richard told me. He said the king was forced by the queen to make up charges against my father that would send him to prison. When my uncle explained this to me, he wept and hugged and kissed me. He told me I could rely on him as if he were my father, and he said he would love me as if I were his child."), ("Duchess", "Ah, its a shame that a liar can seem so nice, hiding his wicked intentions under a mask of goodness. He is my son, yes, and Im ashamed of him. But he didnt get his deceitfulness from my breast."), ("Boy", "You think my uncle was lying, grandmother?"), ("Duchess", "Yes, boy."), ("Boy", "I cant believe that. Wait! Whats that noise?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "No one can stop me now from wailing and weeping about my terrible luck. I dont care if it kills me. I plan to fall into the blackest despair."), ("Duchess", "Why are you making such a scene?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Im simply performing the violent tragedy that is my life: Edwardmy husband, your son, our kingis dead. Why should we live now that our leader is dead? Why are the branches still living when the root is gone? Why arent the leaves withering now that the sap is all dried up? If you do intend to live, then mourn. If youre going to die, be quick about it so you can catch the kings departing soul or follow him, like obedient subjects, to his new kingdom of endless night."), ("Duchess", "As the kings mother, I have a large share in your grief. I have wept at my own good husbands death and only kept myself alive by looking at his sons, the mirror images of him. But now these two mirrors of their princely father have cracked to pieces: my sons are dead. And my only comfort is Richard, who is nothing like his father and only causes me shame. You may be a widow, but youre also a mother. You have your children as comfort. But death has snatched my husband from my arms and plucked my two crutches, Edward and Clarence, from my feeble hands. Since your woes are only a portion of mine, I have every reason to surpass your lamentations and drown out your cries with my own."), ("Boy", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Ah, Aunt, you didnt weep at our fathers death. How can we help you by crying for your sorrow?"), ("Girl", "You didnt sympathize with us when we became orphans; we wont cry for you!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "I dont need your help in grieving. I have my own sources of misery. In fact, all the worlds springs and oceans flow from my weeping eyes. I could drown the world. My poor husband, my dear Edward!"), ("Children", "Our poor father, Clarence!"), ("Duchess", "My sons Edward and Clarence!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "What support did I have other than Edward? And now hes gone."), ("Children", "What support did we have besides our father? And now hes gone."), ("Duchess", "What support did I have besides my two sons? And now theyre both gone."), ("Queen elizabeth", "There has never been a widow who suffered such loss as me."), ("Children", "There have never been orphans whove suffered what we have."), ("Duchess", "There was never a mother who suffered so much loss. Alas, I am the mother of all these others' griefs. Each of them has a single loss, while I share them all. She weeps for Edward and so do I, while she does not weep for Clarence, though I do. These young children cry for Clarence and so do I, though they dont cry for Edward, as I do. Alas, all of you can turn to me with your sorrow, because I feel all of it. I will comfort you by adding my own grief to your sorrow."), ("Dorset", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Calm down, dear mother. God is unhappy that youve responded so unthankfully to his doings. In everyday life, when a person is unwilling to pay back a loan that was generously offered, hes considered ungrateful. How much worse it is when Heaven is the lender, as in your case?"), ("Rivers", "Be a careful mother, madam, and think about your son, the young prince. Send for him right away and have him crowned. Your peace of mind depends on him. Bury your sorrows in dead Edwards grave and plant your hopes in Prince Edwards rise to the throne."), ("Richard", "Sister, calm down. All of us have reason to mourn the dimming of our shining star the king. But no good comes from all this wailing. Oh, mother, forgive me. I didnt see you there. On my knee, I humbly ask your blessing."), ("Duchess", "God bless you and make you obedient, loving, and kind."), ("Richard", "(he stands) Amen. (to himself) And make me die a good old man! That should be the point of a mothers blessing. Im surprised my mother forgot to make it."), ("Buckingham", "You mournful princes and grieving gentlemen who have been sharing this burden of grief, now its time to cheer each other up with love. Though we have lost a generous king, we are about to enjoy the benefits of a new king. We must preserve our goodwill toward each other and not break into factions again. I think a few members of the court should fetch the young prince from Wales and bring him to London to be crowned our king."), ("Rivers", "Why only a few courtiers, my lord of Buckingham?"), ("Buckingham", "Because if many of us go there, the hostility between us may break out again, which would be very dangerous with the young prince so newly crowned. When you have a situation where everyone seems free to take off on his or her own, its important that the heads of state keep a low profile. We wouldnt want the prince or his new authority to be undermined by squabbling factions."), ("Richard", "The king made peace among all of us. I, at least, intend to stick to our agreement to get along."), ("Rivers", "And so do I. I think we all do. But, since our agreement is a recent development, it shouldnt be put to the test, which could happen if the coronation turned into a huge ceremony. So, I agree with noble Buckinghamonly a few should go to meet the prince."), ("Hastings", "I think so too."), ("Richard", "Then were agreed. Now we need to figure out which of us will go to meet him. Madam and mother, will you go to offer your support to this weighty business?"), ("Buckingham", "For Gods sake, my lord, lets be sure to be part of the group that meets the prince. Along the way, Ill find an opportunity to separate him from the queens proud relatives, as step one in the plan weve discussed."), ("Richard", "You are my other self, my oracle, my prophet, my dear brother! I plan to act like a child and do exactly what you say. To Wales then, for we will not be left out."), ("First citizen", "Good morrow, neighbor, whither away so fast?"), ("Second citizen", "Im telling you, I hardly know myself. Did you hear the news thats going around?"), ("First citizen", "Yes, that the king is dead."), ("Second citizen", "Bad news, by God. The news is always bad. But this news is bound to make the world go mad."), ("Third citizen", "Neighbors, hello."), ("First citizen", "Good day to you, sir."), ("Third citizen", "Is it true that good King Edward has died?"), ("Second citizen", "Yes, sir, its all too true, God help us."), ("Third citizen", "Then, gentlemen, we can count on trouble."), ("First citizen", "No, no, with Gods help, his son will be king."), ("Third citizen", "Its bad news when a country is ruled by a child."), ("Second citizen", "His counselors will govern as long as hes a minor, and then hell take over. It shouldnt go so badly."), ("First citizen", "Thats how it was with Henry the Sixth, who was crowned in Paris when he was only nine months old."), ("Third citizen", "Really? But at that point, the king had the benefit of excellent counselors. His uncles were good men and protected him."), ("First citizen", "Well, this king has uncles too, on both his father and mothers side."), ("Third citizen", "It would be better if they were all on his fathers side, or that there were none at all on his fathers side. As it is, the rivalry between his fathers and mothers relatives over who will be closest to the king is likely to endanger everyone, if were not lucky. As it stands, theres a struggle between the two sides for the princes attention. Richard, the duke of Gloucester, is very dangerous, and the queens sons and brothers are haughty and proudit would be better for this ailing country if they were subjects, not rulers."), ("First citizen", "Come, come, were worrying about the worst-case scenario. Im sure everything will be fine."), ("Third citizen", "When the day turns cloudy, wise men put on their coats. When leaves fall from the trees, it means winter has arrived. When the sun sets, whos too stupid to recognize its night? When storms arrive early, you can expect the harvest will be damaged. So, if all turns out fine, as you say, its more than we deserve or I expect."), ("Second citizen", "Its true, people are really worried. Its hard to find a person who isnt."), ("Third citizen", "Its always like this in times of change. By some sort of deep instinct, we always know when danger is approaching, just as we know that a storm is coming when the sea swells. But leave it all to God. Where are you all off to?"), ("Second citizen", "The court has sent for us."), ("Third citizen", "For me, too. Ill go with you."), ("Archbishop", "Last night, I hear, they stayed in Stony Stratford. Tonight they will rest in Northhampton. Theyll be here tomorrow or the next day."), ("Duchess", "Im dying to see the prince. I hope hes grown a lot since I last saw him."), ("Queen elizabeth", "But I hear he hasnt. They say my son York has almost passed him in height."), ("York", "Yes, mother, but I wish I hadnt."), ("Duchess", "Why, dear child? Its good to grow."), ("York", "Grandmother, one night when we were eating dinner, my uncle Rivers mentioned that I had grown more than my brother. Yes, said my uncle Gloucester, Small plants are graceful, while ugly weeds grow fast. And since then, Ive wished I wouldnt grow so fast, because sweet flowers are slow while the weeds grow in a hurry."), ("Duchess", "Well, it certainly wasnt true for Richard! As a child, he took such a long time to grow up that, according to his rule, he should have grown up into a gracious adult."), ("York", "And no doubt he is, gracious madam."), ("Duchess", "I hope he is, but mothers get to have their doubts."), ("York", "Hey, if Id remembered something about him, I could have had a good comeback for my uncle, touching on his growth worse than he touched on mine."), ("Duchess", "What would you have said, my young York? Do tell."), ("York", "Indeed, they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw on a crust of bread when he was two hours old. It took me two years before I had a single tooth. Grandmother, this would have been a biting joke."), ("Duchess", "Pretty York, who told you about his teeth?"), ("York", "His nurse, grandmother."), ("Duchess", "His nurse? Why, she was dead before you were even born."), ("York", "Well, if it wasnt her, I dont know."), ("Queen elizabeth", "A mischievous child. Come, come, you are too clever for your own good."), ("Duchess", "Good lady, dont be angry with the child."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Little pitchers have big ears."), ("Archbishop", "Here comes a messenger. Whats the news?"), ("Messenger", "My lord, its news I wish I didnt have to report."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Hows the prince?"), ("Messenger", "Hes fine and healthy, madam."), ("Duchess", "What is your news?"), ("Messenger", "Lord Rivers and Lord Grey have been imprisoned in Pomfret. Pomfret was a castle in northern England used for political executions; Richard II was killed there. Sir Thomas Vaughan was a chief member of Prince Edwards court. Pomfret. So has Sir Thomas Vaughan."), ("Duchess", "Who sent them there?"), ("Messenger", "The powerful dukes Gloucester and Buckingham."), ("Archbishop", "What did they do wrong?"), ("Messenger", "Ive told you everything I know. Why the nobles were imprisoned, and on what charges, I dont know, my gracious lord."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Oh no! I see the downfall of my family. The tiger has seized the gentle deer: a tyrant has begun to attack the weak, innocent king. Welcome, destruction, blood, and massacre! I can see how all this will end as clearly as if I was looking at a map."), ("Duchess", "How many times have I had to live through cursed times of violent struggle? My husband lost his life to get the crown, and my sons' fortunes have been tossed up and down, leaving me to rejoice over their victories and weep over their losses. And once one of them achieved the throne and had taken care of domestic quarrels, they made war among themselves. Its a preposterous outrage. Let it end, or let me die so I wont have to watch any more of it."), ("Queen elizabeth", "(to YORK) Come, my boy, lets go to sanctuaryTaking sanctuary meant going into a church, where for a certain length of time people could be free from civil authority.sanctuary. Madam, farewell."), ("Duchess", "Wait, Ill go with you."), ("Queen elizabeth", "You have no reason to."), ("Archbishop", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) My gracious lady, go, and take your money and belongingsThe archbishop had both religious and civic duties. By assigning the Seal to the queen, hes suggesting that he will treat her, not her son (or her brother in-law Richard), as the lawful monarch. Its not really the Archbishops role, though, to reassign the Seal. Only the king can do that.belongings with you. For my part, Ill reassign the Great Seal of England to you and will take it upon myself to protect you. Come, Ill conduct you to the sanctuary."), ("Buckingham", "Welcome, sweet prince, to London, the capital of the king."), ("Richard", "Welcome, dear nephew, king of all my thoughts. The tiring journey seems to have made you gloomy."), ("Prince", "It wasnt the journey itself, uncle, but the troubles we encountered that made it wearisome and dull. I want more uncles here to welcome me."), ("Richard", "Sweet prince, youre just an innocent child. You dont really understand how capable people are of trickery. All you know is what a man shows you, which has little to do with what hes really thinking. Those uncles that you wish were here were dangerous. Your Grace heard their saccharine words, but didnt take note of their poisonous intentions. God protect you from them and from other false friends!"), ("Prince", "God should keep me from false friends, but they werent false."), ("Richard", "My lord, the mayor of London is here to greet you."), ("Lord mayor", "God bless your Grace with health and happy days."), ("Prince", "Thank you, my good lord, thank you all. I thought my mother and my brother, York, would have met us on our way here long before now. And what a slug Hastings is that he hasnt even arrived to tell us whether theyre coming!"), ("Buckingham", "And, just in time, here comes the sweaty lord."), ("Prince", "Welcome, my lord. What, isnt my mother coming?"), ("Hastings", "God knows why, but your mother and your brother have taken sanctuary in Westminster Abbey. Your sweet brother wanted to come meet you, but his mother wouldnt let him."), ("Buckingham", "Damn, what a sneaky and spiteful course your mother is taking! Lord Cardinal, will you please persuade the queen to hurry and send the duke of York here? Go with him, Lord Hastings, and if she refuses, take the boy from her by force."), ("Cardinal", "My Lord of Buckingham, if my weak skills of persuasion convince his mother to part with the duke of York, you can expect him here shortly. But if she resists my mild pleas, let God in heaven forbid us from disobeying the holy laws of the sanctuary and taking the child from her. I wouldnt commit so serious a crime for anything."), ("Buckingham", "You are too inexplicably stubborn, my lord, too stuck on ceremony. In these less dainty times, youre not breaking the laws of sanctuary to seize him. Its only a sanctuary for those who really need protection or those who are smart enough to claim they do. The prince has done neither; therefore, in my opinion, he isnt really protected by sanctuary. Youre not breaking any holy laws to take him away. Often I have heard of sanctuary men, but until now Ive never heard of sanctuary children."), ("Cardinal", "My lord, youve won me over this time. Lord Hastings, will you go with me?"), ("Hastings", "Im coming, my lord."), ("Prince", "Go as fast as you can. Say, uncle Richard, if my brother comes, where will I stay till my coronation?"), ("Richard", "Whatever seems best to you. If I can give you some advice, if I were you, I would stay in the Tower for a day or two. Then you can stay wherever best suits your health and entertainment needs."), ("Prince", "Of all places, I dont like the TowerJulius Caesar conquered Britain,which then became a part of the Roman Empire. Tower. Didnt Julius Caesar build it, my lord?"), ("Buckingham", "He started it, my noble lord, and succeeding generations rebuilt it."), ("Prince", "Is it on record that he built it, or is it just word of mouth?"), ("Buckingham", "On record, my gracious lord."), ("Prince", "Well, I think that even if it werent on record, the truth would be remembered from one generation to the nextall the way to Doomsday."), ("Richard", "(to himself) As the saying goes, Those that are this wise when theyre this young wont live long."), ("Prince", "What did you say, uncle?"), ("Richard", "I said, When there are no written records, a persons fame lasts for a long time. (to himself) Like InjusticeIniquity, or injustice/wickedness,was a common figure in medieval morality plays, which often personified the Seven Deadly Sins. Like Richard, Iniquity favors double talk to serve his own wicked purposes. Injustice, I get two meanings out of one word."), ("Prince", "That Julius Caesar was a famous man. His courage helped his cleverness, and his cleverness made sure that his reputation for being courageous outlived him. Death didnt conquer this conqueror, for he lives on in his fame, even though hes dead. Ill tell you what, my cousin Buckingham"), ("Buckingham", "What, my dear lord?"), ("Prince", "If I live to be a man, Ill win FranceIn the Hundred Years War (13371453), the English invaded France in an attempt to make good on hereditary claims to the French throne. France again or die a soldier, as honorably as I lived as a king."), ("Richard", "(to himself) As the saying goes, Short summers often have an early spring. This smarty-pants wont live long."), ("Buckingham", "Making good time, heres the duke of York."), ("Prince", "Richard of York, how are you doing, my loving brother?"), ("York", "Very well, my supreme lordthats what I have to call you now."), ("Prince", "Yes, brother, I feel bad about that, too. The man who might have kept that title died too soon, and now it isnt worth nearly as much."), ("Richard", "Hows my nephew doing, noble lord of York?"), ("York", "Thank you for asking, uncle. Oh, my lord, you once said that lazy weeds grow fast. The prince has far outgrown me."), ("Richard", "He has, my lord."), ("York", "Does that mean hes lazy?"), ("Richard", "Oh, my handsome nephew, I must not say that."), ("York", "In that case, hes more obliged to you than I am."), ("Richard", "He may command me as my king, but you still have power over me as a relative."), ("York", "Uncle, please give me your dagger."), ("Richard", "My dagger, little nephew? With all my heart."), ("Prince", "Are you begging, brother?"), ("York", "From my kind uncle, who I know will give it to me, especially as its not worth much."), ("Richard", "Ill give you a greater gift than that, nephew."), ("York", "A greater gift? That must mean a sword."), ("Richard", "Yes, gentle cousin, if it were light enough for you."), ("York", "Oh, I see, you will only part with lightweight presents. For more important things, youll say no."), ("Richard", "A swords too heavy for you to wear."), ("York", "I wouldnt think much of it even if it were heavier."), ("Richard", "What, do you want to wear my weapon, little lord?"), ("York", "I do, so I can thank you for what you called me."), ("Richard", "Whats that?"), ("York", "Little."), ("Prince", "The lord of York is always a bit perverse in his chatter. But, uncle, you know how to bear with him."), ("York", "You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me. Uncle, my brother makes fun of both of us. Because Im little, like an apeProfessional jesters often carried apes on their shoulders. York may also be suggesting that Richards humpback would provide a perfect spot for an ape to perch.ape, he thinks you should bear me on your shoulders, like a fool."), ("Buckingham", "(to himself) What a sharp mind this boy has! To make up for his scorn toward his uncle, he makes fun of himself as well. Its amazing that hes so cunning at his age."), ("Richard", "(to PRINCE) My lord, will you please continue on your way to the Tower? My good cousin Buckingham and I will go to your mother and ask her to meet you there."), ("York", "(to PRINCE) What, youre going to the Tower, my lord?"), ("Prince", "My protector, Richard, insists on it."), ("York", "I cant sleep quietly in the Tower."), ("Richard", "Why, what are you afraid of?"), ("York", "My uncle Clarences angry ghost. My grandmother told me he was murdered there."), ("Prince", "Im not afraid of dead uncles."), ("Richard", "Nor living ones, I hope."), ("Prince", "Well, I hope not. (to YORK) But come, my lord. With a heavy heart, thinking about my dead uncles, I will go to the Tower."), ("Buckingham", "Richard, dont you think this chattering little York was encouraged to taunt you by his sneaky mother in that outrageous way?"), ("Richard", "No doubt, no doubt. Oh, hes a dangerously clever boybold, quick-witted, capable. Hes his mothers child from head to toe."), ("Buckingham", "Well, enough about them. Come here, Catesby. Youve sworn to participate in our plot and to keep it a secret. What do you think: wouldnt it be easy to convince Lord Hastings to join us in installing Richard as king of England?"), ("Catesby", "Hastings loved the princes father so much that we wont be able to persuade him to do anything against the prince."), ("Buckingham", "What about Stanley? Wont he join us?"), ("Catesby", "Hell do whatever Hastings does."), ("Buckingham", "Okay, just do this, noble Catesby: sound out Lord Hastings, but make it seem as if youre just mulling over the idea, that it hasnt been firmed up yet. Invite him to come to the Tower tomorrow for the coronation ceremony. If he seems game to our plan, encourage him to join us and explain all our reasons. But if hes resistant and chilly, then be like that too and break off the conversation. Let us know how he responds. Tomorrow were going to hold two separate meetings, one for those who are with us and one for those who arent. Youll have a lot to do in these meetings."), ("Richard", "Give my regards to Hastings, Catesby. Tell him the nest of dangerous enemies that plagued him for years will die tomorrow at Pomfret. And tell him to give MistressAfter King Edward died, Mistress Shore became Hastingss mistress. Mistress Shore one extra kiss to celebrate this good news."), ("Buckingham", "Good Catesby, do your work well."), ("Catesby", "My good lords, I plan to."), ("Richard", "Will we hear from you before bedtime, Catesby?"), ("Catesby", "You will, my lord."), ("Richard", "Youll find us both at Crosby Place."), ("Buckingham", "Now, my lord, what are we going to do if we find that Lord Hastings wont go along with our plans?"), ("Richard", "Chop off his head. Whatever we decide to do. And when Im king, remember to ask me for the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it, which my brother the king used to own."), ("Buckingham", "I look forward to that present."), ("Richard", "Youll find Ill give it to you very willingly. Come, lets have an early dinner so that we have time to work out our plans."), ("Messenger", "(knocking) My lord, my lord."), ("Hastings", "(offstage) Whos knocking?"), ("Messenger", "A messenger from Lord Stanley."), ("Hastings", "(offstage)What time is it?"), ("Messenger", "Four o'clock in the morning."), ("Hastings", "Cant Lord Stanley sleep?"), ("Messenger", "I guess notfor good reason, as youll soon hear. First, he sends his regards."), ("Hastings", "And then?"), ("Messenger", "And then he said to tell you that tonight he dreamed the duke of Gloucester cut off his helmetthat is, his head. Besides that, he says that two meetings are going to be held tomorrow, and something may be decided at one of them that may make you and him, who are at the other, sorry. He wants to know if instead of going to the meeting, youll get on your horse and ride north with him to get out of harms way."), ("Hastings", "Go, man, return to your lord and tell him not to worry about the separate meetings. While he and I are at one, my loyal servant Catesby will be at the other, so nothing will happen that we wont find out about. Tell your master there is no sound basis for his worries. And as for his dreams, Im surprised hes so foolish as to trust the fantasies of a restless night. If we flee from the boar before the boar even pursues us, well only make the boar angry and suspicious, causing him to chase us when he never intended to. Tell your master to get up and come here, and well go together to the Tower to meet the boarThe boar refers to Richard, whose heraldic emblem, worn on his armor to indicate his noble lineage, was the boar.boar, who will treat us well, as hell see."), ("Messenger", "Ill go, my lord, and tell him what you say."), ("Catesby", "Good morning, my noble lord."), ("Hastings", "Good day, Catesby. Youre up early. What news can you tell me in this fast-moving, unsteady state of ours?"), ("Catesby", "Our world sure is spinning fast, my lord. I believe it wont stop moving and stand upright till Richard wears the wreath of the realm."), ("Hastings", "What do you mean, wears the wreath? Are you talking about the crown?"), ("Catesby", "Yes, my good lord."), ("Hastings", "Ill have my head cut from my shoulders before Ill see the crown so misplaced. But do you think thats what hes aiming for?"), ("Catesby", "Yes, I swear, and he hopes youll join his party to help. For that reason he sends you this good newsthat this very day your enemies, the queens relatives, will die at Pomfret."), ("Hastings", "Well, Im not sorry to hear that, because they have always been my enemies. But the idea that Id give my support to Richard and keep my master King Edward IVs true heirs from the crownnever. God knows Id die before Id do that."), ("Catesby", "Well, lets hope you stay in that noble frame of mind."), ("Hastings", "In a year, when things have calmed down, Ill laugh about how those who got King Edward IV to hate me are now brought low. But as for nowbefore two weeks have gone by, Im going to send some people packing. They have no idea whats coming."), ("Catesby", "Its a horrible thing to die when youre not prepared for it, my gracious lord."), ("Hastings", "Yes, monstrous, monstrous! Thats how it will be for Rivers, Vaughan, and Grey. Thats how it will be for some other men, too, who think theyre as safe as you and I, who are well-loved by noble Richard and Buckingham."), ("Catesby", "Richard and Buckingham have a high opinion of you. (to himself) So high theyll stick your head on the BridgeLondon Bridge, where heads of traitors were displayed on poles to serve as warnings to the general populace. Bridge."), ("Hastings", "I know they do, and I certainly deserve it. Come on, come on, where is your spear for the boar, man? Youre afraid of the boar but you go around without your spear?"), ("Stanley", "My lord, good morning. Good morning, Catesby. Go ahead and laugh at me, but by Jesus, I dont like these separate meetingsI really dont."), ("Hastings", "My lord, my life is as important to me as yours is to you, and it was never as precious to me as it is now. Do you think I would be feeling as triumphant as I am if I didnt know that our situation was secure?"), ("Stanley", "When the lords who are imprisoned at Pomfret left London, they also were in a good mood and supposed their situation was secure. And they also had no reason to worry. But you see how soon the day got cloudy for them. Richards sudden, hateful attack on them makes me worry. I hope to God Im proven wrong! Well, should we head to the Tower? The day is well on its way."), ("Hastings", "Come on, lets get going. You know what, my lord? Those men you just mentioned will be beheaded today."), ("Lord stanley", "They deserved to keep their heads more than some people who have managed to keep their positions. But come, my lord, lets go."), ("Hastings", "Go on ahead. Ill talk with this good man. Whats up, man? Hows it going?"), ("Pursuivant", "Better, since your lordship was nice enough to ask."), ("Hastings", "I tell you, man, its better for me, too, than the last time we met here. Then I was on my way to the Tower, where I was going to be locked up thanks to the false charges of the queens allies. But now, I tell youkeep it to yourself, thoughthose enemies of mine are being put to death today, and Im better than Ive ever been."), ("Pursuivant", "Well, lets hope your good fortune continues!"), ("Hastings", "Thanks a lot, mister. Here, drink to me."), ("Pursuivant", "God be good to you!"), ("Priest", "A nice coincidence, my lord. Im glad to see you."), ("Hastings", "I thank you, Sir John, with all my heart. I am indebted to you for your last sermon. By next week, Ill be able to pay you."), ("Priest", "Ill come to you, your Lordship."), ("Buckingham", "What, talking with a priest, Hastings? Your friends at Pomfret, theyre the ones who need a priest. You, on the other hand, dont have any confessions you have to make."), ("Hastings", "When I ran into this holy man, those men you mentioned did come to mind, in fact. Are you headed to the Tower?"), ("Buckingham", "I am, my lord. But I wont be there for long. Ill be off before you are."), ("Hastings", "Yes, probably, because Im staying for lunch."), ("Buckingham", "(to himself) And for dinner, too, though you dont know it. (to HASTINGS) Come, are you going?"), ("Hastings", "Ill follow you, my lord."), ("Rivers", "Sir Richard Ratcliffe, let me tell you this. Today you will witness a person die for truth, duty, and loyality."), ("Grey", "(to RATCLIFFE) God protect the prince from all of you. Youre a group of damned bloodsuckers!"), ("Vaughan", "(to RATCLIFFE) Youll live to regret this."), ("Ratcliffe", "Hurry up. Your lives are over."), ("Rivers", "Oh, Pomfret, Pomfret! Oh, you bloody prison, fatal and threatening to noble lords! Within these guilty walls, Richard II was hacked to death. And now, to add more blood to its name, were losing our innocent lives here."), ("Grey", "Now Margarets curse has fallen on our heads, for standing by and doing nothing when Richard stabbed her son."), ("Rivers", "She cursed Richard then. She cursed Buckingham then. She cursed Hastings then. Oh God, remember to hear her prayer for them, just as for us! But dont kill my sister and her royal sons, be satisfied, dear God, with our blood, which is being spilled unjustly, as you know."), ("Ratcliffe", "Hurry up. The hour of death is approaching."), ("Rivers", "Come, Grey. Come, Vaughan. Lets embrace(They embrace) and say goodbye until we meet again in heaven."), ("Hastings", "Now, noble lords, the reason were meeting is to determine the day the prince will be crowned. In Gods name, speak. When should the royal day be?"), ("Buckingham", "Is everything ready for that event?"), ("Stanley", "It is. All we have to do is name the day."), ("Ely", "Tomorrows a good day."), ("Buckingham", "Who knows what the Lord Protector thinks? Whos closest to him?"), ("Ely", "You, I think, would best know what hes thinking."), ("Buckingham", "We know each others faces, but as for our thoughts, he doesnt know any more about my thinking than I do about yours or hisor you do about mine. Lord Hastings, you and he are close."), ("Hastings", "Thank you. I know he holds me dear, but I havent asked him about the coronation, and he hasnt told me. But you, my noble lords, may name a time, and Ill second it on the dukes behalf, which I dont think hell mind."), ("Ely", "Right on cue, heres the duke himself."), ("Richard", "My noble lords and relatives, good morning. I slept in. But I hope I didnt delay any important decisions."), ("Buckingham", "If you hadnt shown up on cue, my lord, Lord Hastings was going to take your partI mean, he was going to speak for youin the crowning of the king."), ("Richard", "No one may be bolder than my Lord Hastings. He knows me well and loves me well. Ely, when I was last at your palace, I saw some great strawberries in your garden. I beg you, send someone to bring some of them."), ("Ely", "Yes, my lord. With pleasure."), ("Richard", "Buckingham, I need to have a word with you. (drawing him aside) Catesby has sounded Hastings out and found the prickly gentleman so opposed to our plan that he actually said he would die before hed agree to have his masters son, as he put it so devotedly, lose the crown."), ("Buckingham", "Move to the other room, my lord. Ill come soon."), ("Stanley", "We have not yet set the coronation day. Tomorrow, in my opinion, is too soon. I myself am not as well-equipped as I would be if the day were put off a bit."), ("Ely", "Where is my lord, the duke of Gloucester? I have sent for the strawberries."), ("Hastings", "Richard is looking cheerful today. You always know hes got some plan that pleases him when he says good morning with such gusto. I dont think theres a man under the sun whos worse at hiding his love or hate than Richard. You know his feelings immediately just by looking at his face."), ("Stanley", "And what feelings did you see in his face today?"), ("Hastings", "That hes not angry with anyone here. If he were, he would have shown it."), ("Stanley", "I pray to God he isnt."), ("Richard", "Tell me, all of you, what punishment does a person deserve who conspires to kill me with witchcraft and who has already plagued my body with black magic?"), ("Hastings", "Because I love your Grace, I say that whoever the offenders are deserve to die."), ("Richard", "Then see the evidence of their evil with your own eyes. (he shows his arm) Look how Ive been bewitched! See how my arm has become like a withered tree-branch? This is the work of Edwards wife, that monstrous witch, who is in league with that tramp Shore. They have used witchcraft to harm me."), ("Hastings", "If they have done this thing, my noble lord"), ("Richard", "If? You lover of that damned whore, youre talking to me of ifs? Youre a traitor. Off with his head. By Saint Paul, I swear I wont eat lunch until I see him beheaded. Lovell and Ratcliffe, make sure it gets done. The rest of you who love me, come with me."), ("Hastings", "I pity England, but not myself. I was too foolish. I might have prevented this. Stanley dreamed the boar beheaded him, and I laughed and refused to flee with him. Three times today my horse stumbled and started when he looked in the direction of the Tower, as if he hated to carry me to this slaughterhouse. Oh, now I really need that priest who spoke to me today!"), ("Hastings", "And I regret having bragged to the messenger about how my enemies were being butchered at Pomfret while I, as I said, was in good standing with Richard. Oh Margaret, Margaret, your heavy curse has now landed on poor Hastingss miserable head!"), ("Ratcliffe", "Hurry upthe duke wants to eat his dinner. Make your confession short. Hes eager to see your head."), ("Hastings", "We spend more time seeking out the fleeting glories of this temporary world than looking to the permanent grace of God! Anyone who builds his hopes on air lives like a drunken sailor hanging on a mast, ready with every dizzy nod of his head to tumble to the bottom of the sea. The things we worry about, like good looks and possessions, arent lasting, and they dont matter."), ("Lovell", "Come, come, hurry up. Its pointless to talk now."), ("Hastings", "Oh bloody Richard! Miserable England, I foresee for you the most frightening time you have ever experienced. Come, lead me to the block. Bring him my head. Those who smile at it will soon be dead themselves."), ("Richard", "Tell me, cousin, I need to know if you can shake like youve got a fever, turn pale all of a sudden, and stop speaking in the middle of a wordas if you were driven crazy with fear."), ("Buckingham", "Oh please, I can imitate the best tragic actor around. I can speak and then look all around, and tremble, and start at a mere piece of straw as if I were paranoid. Frightening looks are also at my service, as are fake smiles. Anytime I need them, theyre waiting to do my bidding. But has Catesby gone?"), ("Richard", "He has. But here he is, back with the mayor."), ("Buckingham", "Lord Mayor"), ("Richard", "Watch out for the drawbridgeRichard and Buckingham are pretending they are under attack.drawbridge over there!"), ("Buckingham", "Listen! A drum!"), ("Richard", "Catesby, look over the top of these walls to see if anyones there."), ("Buckingham", "Lord Mayor, the reason we have sent"), ("Richard", "Look behind you! Defend yourself! There are enemies here."), ("Buckingham", "God defend and guard us innocents against them!"), ("Richard", "Stay calm. Theyre friendsRatcliffe and Lovell."), ("Lovell", "Heres the head of that notorious traitor, the dangerous and unsuspected Hastings."), ("Richard", "I loved this man so much it makes me weep. I took him to be the plainest, most harmless Christian on earth. He was the book in which I recorded all of my most secret thoughts. He was so slick in covering over his plans that if it hadnt been for his love affair with Shores wife, I would never have suspected him."), ("Buckingham", "Well, well, he was the most covert traitor who ever lived. Would you believe, if we hadnt caught him, this subtle traitor would have murdered the Lord of Gloucester and me in the council room today?"), ("Lord mayor", "He would have?"), ("Richard", "What, do you think were Turks or savages, instead of Christians? You think we would have disobeyed the law and proceeded to kill this villain if Englands peace and our own lives hadnt been at stake?"), ("Lord mayor", "I hope nothing else like this ever happens to you! This man deserved his death. And you, my good lords, were right to warn other traitors from trying the same."), ("Buckingham", "I didnt expect any better from him once he got involved with Mistress Shore. But we had decided that he shouldnt die until you were able to come witness his execution. (Which was prevented by the haste of our friends, Lovell and Ratcliffe here, who went against what we intended somewhat in their hurry to protect us). If you could have heard the traitor speak for himself and confess the exact way he planned to murder us, you could have told the citizens what terrible intentions he had, though now theyre likely to misconstrue what we did and wail over his death."), ("Lord mayor", "But, my good lord, the words of you and Lord Buckingham are as trustworthy to me as if I had seen and heard him speak myself. And do not doubt, you honest, noble princes, that Ill let our citizens know how fairly you proceeded in this case."), ("Richard", "That is exactly why we wanted you here, your lordshipto avoid the public carping and complaints."), ("Buckingham", "But since youve come too late to see the execution as we intended, at least let people know what you hear we intended. And so, good Lord Mayor, we bid you goodbye."), ("Richard", "Follow him, Buckingham. Hes traveling at a gallop to the London meeting hall. There, as soon as you have a chance, drop the hint that Edwards children are bastards. Tell the citizens how Edward put to death a citizen just because the citizen said he was going to make his own son heir to the crownwhen all the citizen meant was that he owned a tavern called the Crown and was going to leave it to his son. And then point out what a lech Edward was and what a bestial appetite he had for women, which touched even the citizens' own servants, daughters, and wives. There was no limit to what his lustful eye and savage heart would prey on. And, if you need to, approach the subject of me: tell them that when my mother became pregnant with the insatiable Edward, my noble father was fighting in France. With a little calculating, its obvious that Edward is not in fact my fathers childnot a surprising revelation if you consider how my father the noble duke looked nothing like this man. But only hint at this vaguely, because, as you know, my mothers still alive."), ("Buckingham", "Dont worry, my lord, Ill be as eloquent as if the golden crown Im pleading for were for myself. Goodbye, my lord."), ("Richard", "If things go well, bring the crowd to BaynardsBaynards Castle was another of Richards London estates. Baynards Castle, where Ill be surrounded by priests and learned bishops."), ("Buckingham", "Im off. Around three or four o'clock, look for news from the meeting hall."), ("Richard", "Lovell, go as fast as you can to Doctor Shaw. (to RATCLIFFE) Go to Friar Penker. Both of you, tell these men to meet me in less than an hour at Baynards Castle. Now Ill go inside and write out a secret order to keep Clarences brats out of sight and to forbid anyone whatsoever from seeing King Edwards sons."), ("Scrivener", "Heres the indictment of the good Lord Hastings, which has been written out in a clear hand, like any legal document, so it can be read aloud in public outside St. Pauls Cathedral. And look how well this sequence of events holds together: after Catesby brought the indictment to me last night, I spent eleven hours copying it. The original took just as long to write out. So thats twenty-two hours. And yet five hours ago, Lord Hastings was alive, untouched, free, at liberty. What a backward world we live in! Why, whos so stupid that he cant see through this fraud? But whos so blind to the consequences of speaking out that hell admit what he knows? The world is a bad place, where you cant speak what you know."), ("Richard", "So what did the citizens say?"), ("Buckingham", "Its incrediblethey didnt say a word."), ("Richard", "Did you mention that Edwards children are bastards?"), ("Buckingham", "I did. I talked about how he was engaged to Lady LucyEdward IV was engaged to Elizabeth Lucy and had a child with her before he married Elizabeth Grey. Lady Lucy, and how he was engaged to Lady BonaEdward sent Warwick to secure this French marriage and then backed out of it. Lady Bonathrough the help of the earl of Warwick. I spoke of the unquenchable greediness of Edwards desires and the way he forced himself on the wives of Londoners. I mentioned the way he punished people harshly for minor offenses. I said he was not the son of the noble duke of York, because your father was in France when he was conceived, which explains why he doesnt have anything in common with his father. And then I suggested that you were the spitting image of your father, both in the way you look and in the nobleness of your character. I went into all your victories in Scotland, your skill as a warrior, your wisdom in peacetime, your generosity, your goodness, and your exceptional modesty. Indeed, I left nothing out. And when my oration came to a close, I asked those who loved their country to cry, God save Richard, Englands royal king!"), ("Richard", "And did they?"), ("Buckingham", "No, God help me, they didnt say a word. Like silent statues or stones that breathed, they just gazed at each other and turned as pale as the dead. When I saw this, I scolded them and asked the mayor what this stubborn silence meant. He said that the people werent used to being spoken to except by the RecorderRecorder=a legal officialRecorder. So I urged the Recorder to repeat my taleyou know, The duke of Buckingham said this, Buckingham meant that, but nothing on his own authority. When he was done, a few followers of my own at the far end of the hall hurled their caps in the air. Some ten voices cried, God save King Richard! I jumped on this slender opportunity and said, Thank you, noble citizens and friends. This widespread applause and enthusiastic shouts make clear you stand behind Richard. And then I broke off and quickly came away."), ("Richard", "What blocks of wood! They wouldnt say anything? Arent the mayor and his fellow citizens coming?"), ("Buckingham", "The mayor is here at hand. Pretend youre afraid, my lord, and dont speak until youre pleaded with. And make sure to carry a prayer book in your hand and to stand between two priests, okay? Then Ill have the grounds to build a holy sermon about why you should be king. But dont be easily won over. Act like a virgin, always answering No, but taking it in the end."), ("Richard", "Im going now. If youre as good at pleading to them as I am at saying no to you, this will definitely come to a happy end."), ("Buckingham", "Hurry, go up to the roof. The Lord Mayor is knocking. Welcome, my lord. Im twiddling my thumbs waiting for the duke to show up. I dont think he wants to be disturbed. Here comes his servant. Now, Catesby, what does your lord say to my request?"), ("Catesby", "My lord, he asks that you please visit him tomorrow or the next day. Hes inside in prayer, with two reverend fathers. He doesnt want to be disturbed in his holy work by any worldly requests."), ("Buckingham", "Return to the gracious duke, good Catesby. Tell him that the mayor, some citizens, and I have come to confer with his grace in matters of great importance concerning the general good."), ("Catesby", "Ill tell him right away, my lord."), ("Buckingham", "Ah, my lord, this prince is nothing like Edward! He is not lolling in bed but on his knees in prayer. Hes not enjoying himself with a couple of prostitutes but studying with two learned priests. Hes not sleeping to fatten up his lazy body, but praying, to nourish his attentive soul. England would be lucky to have this virtuous prince as king. But Im afraid well never get him to agree to be king."), ("Lord mayor", "But God forbid he says no to us!"), ("Buckingham", "Im afraid he will. Here comes Catesby again. Whats up, Catesby, what does your master say?"), ("Catesby", "My lord, he wonders why you have assembled such troops of citizens to speak with him, since he had no idea they were coming. My lord, hes afraid you mean him harm."), ("Buckingham", "Im sorry my noble brother is suspicious of me. By God, Im here because I love him. Return and tell him so. When devoutly religious men are praying, its hard to draw them out of it, because they get lost in the wonder of their contemplation."), ("Lord mayor", "See how he stands between two clergymen!"), ("Buckingham", "Two props of virtue for a Christian prince, to prevent him from ever becoming vain. And, see, he has a prayer book in each hand, the signs of a holy man. Most gracious prince of the famous house of Plantagenet, pardon us for interrupting your righteous, Christian prayer. Please listen favorably to our request."), ("Richard", "My lord, you dont need to apologize. I beg you to pardon me. Ive been so intent on serving God that Ive kept my friends waiting. In any case, what would you like?"), ("Buckingham", "Only what, I hope, will please God above and all good men on this island, which currently has no king."), ("Richard", "I suspect that I have committed some offence to the city and you have come to reprimand me for not knowing better."), ("Buckingham", "You have, my lord. I hope youll make up for it!"), ("Richard", "Why else would I live in a Christian country, if I cant ask forgiveness for my faults?"), ("Buckingham", "Then you should know that we take fault with your resigning the supreme seat, the majestic throne, the sceptered office, of your ancestorsthe power and greatness that destiny and your noble birth have handed youto the wrong person. You arent respecting the lineage of your royal family. Youre lost in sleepy thoughts, and we have come to wake you to our countrys needs. This noble island has been compromised. She is scarred by the infamous deeds of King Edward IV. Her royal stock has been corrupted and nearly lost. We want that royalty remembered again. We heartily beg you, in all your goodness, to take upon yourself the responsibility and rule of this land, not merely as a servant, substitute, or other lowly agent of the king, but as the king himself. It is your birthright to be king. Its for this reason that we are herethe citizens of England and your devoted friends. We strongly urge you on."), ("Richard", "I cant tell which is the better course of action, to leave in silence or to scold you. If I dont answer, perhaps youll think Im accepting the heavy responsibility you foolishly want to impose on me. But if I do speak and refuse your request, then Im guilty of reprimanding my friends, who have been faithful and loving toward me. So, Ill speak to make clear I dont want the crown but also that I am grateful to you. Here is my definitive answer: thank you for your love, but Im going to have to turn down your weighty request because I dont deserve to be king. First of all, even if all the obstacles were eliminated and my path led straight to the crownif it were truly my birthrightI would rather hide from my greatness than hide inside the greatness of the position itself and be smothered by it. My spirit is poor, and I have so many terrible defects that as king I would be like a little boat tossed about on a mighty sea. So, thank God, there is no real need for me, as I wouldnt be able to help you much. The royal tree has left us other fruit, which, with time, will do just fine on the throne and make us all happy as king, Im sure. Someone other than I has the right and the good fortune to be made king. God forbid that I snatch the crown from him."), ("Buckingham", "My lord, what youve said makes clear you have a conscience, but your objections are trivial, given the circumstances. You say that Prince Edward is your brothers son. We agree, but not by your brothers wife. King Edward was going to marry Lady Lucyyour mother can vouch for thatand then he was betrothed to Bona, the King of Frances sister-in-law. But both of these were put off by Elizabeth Grey, a careworn mother of many children who had once been a beauty but was now a stressed-out widow long past her prime. Nevertheless, under pretence of asking a favor of him, she attracted his lustful eye and seduced him so thoroughly that he completely debased himself, committing adultery with her. It resulted in this Edward, whom were polite enough to call Prince. Out of respect for the living, Ill restrain myself from telling you everything. But, my good lord, if you dont care about this country, at least use your own pure lineage to rescue us from the current corruption of the royal line."), ("Lord mayor", "Yes, my good lord, your citizens beg you."), ("Buckingham", "Dont refuse the love we offer you."), ("Catesby", "Oh, make them joyful! Grant their law-abiding request!"), ("Richard", "Alas, why would you heap all these responsibilities on me? I am unfit to rule and to be king. Please, dont take it badly, but I cannot and will not give in to you."), ("Buckingham", "Perhaps you refuse our request out of love for your brothers son. You dont want to depose the child. We know how tender your heart is and what gentle, kind, womanly feelings you have for your relatives, as well as for people from all walks of life. But listen, if you wont become king, well just get someone else, to the disgrace and ruin of your family. We will not have your brothers son as king. On this note, were leaving. Come, citizens. Damn it, Im not going to beg anymore!"), ("Richard", "Oh, please dont swear, my lord of Buckingham."), ("Catesby", "Call them back, my lord, and accept their request. If you refuse it, the whole country will regret it."), ("Richard", "Would you tie me to a whole world of worries? Well, call them back again. I am not made of stone; I am affected by all these kind pleas, though it goes against my conscience and my soul. Buckingham, my brother, and you wise, serious men, since you intend to force me to take responsibility for these changing times, whether I want to or not, Im going to have to be brave and endure the load. But if this imposition youve put on me happens to result in dark scandal or ugly reproach, the fact that you forced me to accept this should clear me from blame. God knows, and you may have noticed, Im not to eager to take on this job."), ("Lord mayor", "God bless your Grace! We understand youre just doing it for us, and well be sure to say so."), ("Richard", "If you say that, youll only be telling the truth."), ("Buckingham", "Then I salute you with this royal title: long live Richard, Englands worthy king!"), ("All", "Amen."), ("Buckingham", "Will you be crowned tomorrow?"), ("Richard", "Whenever you want, since youre the one who wants it."), ("Buckingham", "Tomorrow, then, we will wait on your Grace. Now well take our leavejoyfully."), ("Richard", "(to the bishops) Come, let us get back to praying. Farewell, my cousin; farewell, noble friends."), ("Duchess", "Whos this? My granddaughter, with her kind aunt, the duchess of Gloucester, leading her by the hand? Now, on my life, the young child must be headed to the Tower to greet the young princes, whom she adores. Daughter, how nice to see you."), ("Anne", "Good afternoon!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "The same to you, good sister. Where are you going?"), ("Anne", "Just to the TowerIm guessing, for the same reason you are: to salute the noble princes who are staying there."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Yes, kind sister. We can all go together. And here comes the warden, just in time. Officer, please tell us, if you will, how are the prince and my little son, York?"), ("Brakenbury", "Theyre just fine, my dear madam. But Im sorryIm not allowed to let you visit them. The king has strictly forbidden it."), ("Queen elizabeth", "The king? Whos that?"), ("Brakenbury", "I meant to say the Lord Protector."), ("Queen elizabeth", "The Lord keep him from the title of king! Richard has set boundaries between my love and theirs? I am their mother. Whos going to keep me from them?"), ("Duchess", "I am their fathers mother. I will see them."), ("Anne", "I am their aunt, and I love them like a mother. So take me to see them. Officer, Ill take the responsibility from you, and the blame too."), ("Brakenbury", "No, madam, no. I cant do this. I am bound by oath, so please forgive me."), ("Stanley", "In just an hour from now, Duchess of York, Ill be saluting you as the mother of two beautiful queens. (to ANNE) Come, madam, you must go straight to Westminster Abbey, where you will be crowned Richards queen."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Oh, cut my bodice-staps so that my pent-up heart can have some room to breathe, or Ill faint from this deadly news!"), ("Anne", "Cruel, cruel news!"), ("Dorset", "(to QUEEN ELIZABETH) Cheer up, mother. How are you feeling?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Oh, Dorset, dont waste your time talking to me. Leave. Death and destruction are following at your heels. Your mothers name has become a threat to her own children. If you want to outrun death, go cross the sea to France and stay with RichmondHenry Tudor, the earl of Richmond, later to succeed Richard as King Henry VII. Richmond, out of the reach of hell. Go, get out of here, get out of this slaughterhouse. Otherwise youll just increase the number of the dead, and make me die the slave of Margarets curse, no longer a mother, a wife, or Englands queen."), ("Stanley", "Madam, your advice is wise and caring. Dorset, take advantage of the time you have. Ill write to my stepson Richmond on your behalf, so that hell meet you on the way. But dont delay."), ("Duchess", "O, this evil wind that spreads nothing but misery. O, my cursed wombits a deathbed, really, since Richard came out of it. It has hatched a cockatriceThe cockatrice was a mythical being that could kill with its gaze.cockatrice, whose gaze kills whatever it lands on."), ("Stanley", "(to ANNE) Come, madam, come. I was sent in a hurry."), ("Anne", "I go unwillingly. I wish to God that the golden crown that Ill have to wear were red-hot steel and burned me straight through to the brain! I wish I could be anointed queen with deadly venom, not oil, and that I would die before anyone even had a chance to say, God save the Queen!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Go, go, poor soul. I dont envy your position. If you want to make me happy, dont wish yourself harm."), ("Anne", "No? Why? The man Im married to now came to me when hed barely washed the blood off his hands from killing my first husband, that angel, as well as my husbands sainted father, whose corpse I was following to burial. Im telling you, when I looked at Richards face, this is what I wished: I want you to be cursed for making me a widow so young. And when you get married, let sorrow haunt your bed. And I hope your wifeif any woman is crazy enough to marry youis more miserable about the fact that youre alive as you have made me by killing my husband! And then what? Before I even had time to repeat the curse, my womans heart was taken captive by his sweet, slick words. I became the victim of my own curse. Since I married him, I have not had one hours sleep in his bed. Every night Im awakened by his terrifiedAnnes father, the earl of Warwick, fought on the opposite side from Richard and the other Yorkists in the wars between the Lancasters and Yorks.terrified dreams. It doesnt matter if I sleep, though. He hates me because of who my father is. He will, no doubt, get rid of me soon."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Poor dear, goodbye. I pity your situation."), ("Anne", "No more than I do yours."), ("Dorset", "Goodbye. I know youre unhappy with the glory of becoming queen."), ("Anne", "(to ELIZABETH) And goodbye to you, the poor soul who has to leave that glory behind."), ("Duchess", "(to DORSET) Go to Richmond, and good luck. (to ANNE) You go to Richard. I hope good angels will protect you. (to QUEEN ELIZABETH) You take sanctuary in the Abbey and think good thoughts for us. I will go to my grave, where I can look forward to peace and rest. I have witnessed eighty-odd years of sorrow; for each hour of joy Ive experienced, Ive suffered a full week of misery."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Wait. Look back at the Tower with me. Please, you ancient building, take pity on those tender babes locked inside your walls by envious rivals! You are such a rough cradle for such little pretty ones. You are a rude, ragged nurse and an old, sullen playmate for such tender princes. Please treat my babies well. I know I must look foolish saying goodbye to a building, but Im aching with sorrow."), ("Richard", "Everyone stand aside. Cousin Buckingham."), ("Buckingham", "My gracious king."), ("Richard", "Give me your hand. Because of your advice and your help, I have a high position now. But will I wear these honors for only a day or will I enjoy them for a long time?"), ("Buckingham", "Let them last forever."), ("Richard", "Oh Buckingham, now Im going to test to see if youre truly made of gold. Young Prince Edward is still alivewhat do you think Im going to say next?"), ("Buckingham", "Go on, my loving lord."), ("Richard", "Why, Buckingham, I say I want to be king."), ("Buckingham", "Why, you are king, your highness."), ("Richard", "Ha! Am I king? I guess I am. But Edward is still alive."), ("Buckingham", "True, noble prince."), ("Richard", "Oh, how bitter it is that Edwardthe real true, noble princeshould still be alive! Cousin, you didnt used to be so thickheaded. Shall I put it plainly? I want the bastards dead. And I want it done right away. What do you say? Speak now and to the point."), ("Buckingham", "Your Grace can do whatever he wants."), ("Richard", "Tut, tut, youve become rather icy. Your friendliness toward me seems to be freezing over. Tell me, do I have your consent to kill them?"), ("Buckingham", "Give me a little breathing space, my lord, a little pause to think. Ill let you know my answer shortly."), ("Catesby", "(so only the attendant nearest him can hear) The king is angry. See, he bites his lip."), ("Richard", "(to himself) I only want to deal with stupid fools and careless boys. I have no use for people who look at me insightfully. Ambitious Buckingham grows much too circumspect. Boy!"), ("Page", "My lord?"), ("Richard", "Do you know anyone who would kill someone for money?"), ("Page", "My lord, I know one unhappy gentleman who has more pride than money. Money talks, and would very likely get him to do anything."), ("Richard", "Whats his name?"), ("Page", "His name is Tyrrel, my lord."), ("Richard", "I know the man a bit. Go, bring him here, boy. (to himself) The thoughtful, witty Buckingham will no longer be privy to my innermost thoughts. Has he held out for me for so long and without a moments doubt only to suddenly need some breathing room? Well, so be it. Look whos here! Whats the news with you?"), ("Stanley", "You should know, my loving lord, Ive heard that the marquess Dorset has fled to Brittany, to the earl of Richmond."), ("Richard", "Come here, Catesby. Spread the rumor abroad that Anne, my wife, is very sick. I will make sure shes kept out of view. And find a poverty stricken gentleman who I can marry straightaway to Clarences daughter. Clarences son is dull-witted, so Im not worried about him. Look at you, standing there in a stupor! I repeat, spread the rumor that Anne, my wife, is sick and likely to die. Hurry up because its absolutely crucial that I destroy anything that may damage my position. (to himself) I must get married to my brothers daughterElizabeth of York, daughter of Queen Elizabeth and King Edward. She later married Henry Tudor, earl of Richmond. She was the grandmother of Elizabeth I and considered by Elizabethans to mark the start of the Tudor reign.daughter. Otherwise, my kingdom stands on glass. Murdering her brothers and then marrying her isnt the most foolproof way to secure my position. But Im steeped so deep in blood by now that one sin has to follow the next. I have no tears of pity for anyone. Are you Tyrrel?"), ("Tyrrel", "James Tyrreland your most obedient subject."), ("Richard", "Are you indeed?"), ("Tyrrel", "Test me, my blessed king."), ("Richard", "Do you dare kill a friend of mine?"), ("Tyrrel", "Yes, my lord, but Id rather kill two enemies."), ("Richard", "Well, thats what you get to do. Two great enemies, in fact, enemies to my peace of mind. Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower."), ("Tyrrel", "Give me access to them, and soon you wont have to worry about them anymore."), ("Richard", "Thats music to my ears. Come here, Tyrrel. By this token, youll be admitted to their cell. Get up and listen to me. Thats all there is to it. As soon as the deed is done, you will be in my favor and I will promote you."), ("Tyrrel", "Ill do it right away."), ("Buckingham", "My lord, I have thought over the request you just made of me."), ("Richard", "Well, it doesnt matter anymore. Dorset has fled to the earl of Richmond."), ("Buckingham", "I heard the news, my lord."), ("Richard", "Stanley, Richmond is your wifes son. Get information from her."), ("Buckingham", "My lord, Id want to have the gift you promised me on your honor: the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it."), ("Richard", "Stanley, pay attention to your wifes doings. If she sends any letters to Richmond, you will be accountable to me for it."), ("Buckingham", "What do you say, your Highness, about my just request?"), ("Richard", "As I remember, Henry the Sixth prophesied that Richmond would be king when Richmond was only a foolish little boy. A king, perhaps"), ("Buckingham", "My lord"), ("Richard", "How is it that the prophet didnt tell me at the time that I would kill him?"), ("Buckingham", "My lord, your promise of the earldom"), ("Richard", "Richmond! The last time I was in Exeter, the mayor kindly showed me the castle there and called it RougemontThe words Rougemont and Richmond were pronounced similarly, and both mean red hill. Rougemont. The name startled me because an Irish poet once told me that I would die soon after seeing Richmond."), ("Buckingham", "My lord!"), ("Richard", "Yes, what time is it?"), ("Buckingham", "Im reminding your grace what you promised me."), ("Richard", "Well, but what time is it?"), ("Buckingham", "Its almost ten o'clock."), ("Richard", "Well, let it strike ten then."), ("Buckingham", "Why let it strike?"), ("Richard", "Because youre like the lowborn fellow who strikes the bellyou keep interrupting my thoughts. I am not in the giving mood today."), ("Buckingham", "Well, then, let me know whether you will give me the earldom some other time."), ("Richard", "Youre bothering me. Im not in the mood."), ("Buckingham", "Is this really happening? Does he reward my dedicated service with such deep contempt? Did I work to make him king for this? Oh, let me remember what happened to Hastings and hurry to BrecknockBrecknock was Buckinghams family estate in southeast Wales. Brecknock while I still have my head on my shoulders!"), ("Tyrrel", "The tyrants bloody request has been met. It was the most ruthless massacre this country has ever been guilty of. Dighton and Forrest, whom I hired to perform the butchery, are used to killing people, the bloody dogs. But they melted with tenderness and human compassion, weeping like children, when they described what theyd done. The tender babes lay like this, said Dighton. Like this, said Forrest, with their innocent white arms around each other. Their lips, like four red roses on a stalk, touched. A prayer book lay on their pillow, which said Forrest, almost made me change my mind. But, oh, the devilthere he stopped talking and Dighton took up where he left off: We smothered the perfect, most sweet work of nature. The two men were both destroyed by remorse. They couldnt speak. So I left them to bring the news to the murderous king. And here he comes. Here he comes. Health to you, my king."), ("Richard", "Kind Tyrrel, will your news make me happy?"), ("Tyrrel", "If my doing what you told me to makes you happy, then be happy, because I did it."), ("Richard", "But did you see them dead?"), ("Tyrrel", "I did, my lord."), ("Richard", "And buried, noble Tyrrel?"), ("Tyrrel", "The Towers chaplain has buried them, but to tell you the truth, I dont know where."), ("Richard", "Tyrrel, come back shortly after dinner and tell me the details of their deaths. In the meantime, think about how I can do you good and give you what you want. See you soon."), ("Tyrrel", "I humbly say goodbye."), ("Richard", "Ive locked up Clarences son and matched his daughter with a poor fellow. Edwards sons have been carried off by the angels and Anne, my wife, has bid good night to the world. Now I go, a jolly, thriving wooer, to marry my brother Edwards young daughter, Elizabeth, because I know Richmond has his eye on her. He wants to win the crown by way of marrying her."), ("Ratcliffe", "My lord!"), ("Richard", "Is the news good or bad that you enter without knocking?"), ("Ratcliffe", "Bad news, my lord. The Bishop of Ely has fled to Richmond, and Buckingham, backed by a hardy Welsh army, is on the march. His army is growing."), ("Richard", "Ely joining Richmond troubles me more than Buckingham and his quickly assembled army. Come, Ive heard that frightened analysis only serves to delay action, and delay can lead to ruin. So my method is going to be to move as quickly as fire. Come, lets gather an army. The best strategy is to head right to the battlefield. When traitors challenge us to fight, its best to act fast."), ("Queen margaret", "So now the good times have ripened and grown rotten. Ive lurked in the shadows here to watch the downfall of my enemies. Ive been watching the terrible prologue to a scene that I hope will prove dark and tragic. Ill head to France soon. Its time to hide, wretched Margaret. Whos coming?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Ah, my poor princes! Ah, my tender babes, my flowers who didnt even get a chance to bloom. If your gentle souls are still flying in the air and have not yet landed where they will remain forever, hover around me with your airy wings and hear your mothers lament."), ("Queen margaret", "Hover about her and tell her she got what she deserved, with her children dead before their time."), ("Duchess", "Ive been crazed with so many miseries that my tongue has tired of lamenting and gone mute. Edward Plantagenet, why are you dead?"), ("Queen margaret", "(to herself) One Plantagenet pays for the other. One Edward dies to pay a debt for the other Edward who died."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Will you abandon such gentle lambs, God, and throw them to the wolves? Have you ever slept before while such a terrible deed was done?"), ("Queen margaret", "(to herself) Surewhen my husband, holy HarryHarry = Henry VIHarry, died and when my sweet son died."), ("Duchess", "(sitting down) Sight has gone blind, life is as dead as a ghost. This is a mournful sceneits a shame to the world, when someone like me, who should have died long ago, still lives. As a short summary and record of an unbearable life, Ill settle my restless bones on Englands lawful ground (sitting down), which broke the law when it got drunk on the blood of the innocent!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "(sitting down beside her) Oh, if only the earth would offer me not just a seat for mourning but a grave. Then I would bury myself, not just rest my bones. Oh, who has any reason to mourn except us?"), ("Queen margaret", "If the oldest grief is the most revered, then mine should have the most weight here. Let my sorrow have the upper hand. If you can allow for comparison (sitting down with them), consider your losses next to mine. I had an Edward till a Richard killed him, and I had a Harry till a Richard killed him. On your side, you had an Edward till a Richard killed him, and you had the young Richard, York, till a Richard killed him. So, I guess were equal."), ("Duchess", "I had a Richard toonamely, my husbandand you killed him. I had my son Rutland, and you helped kill him."), ("Queen margaret", "You had a Clarence, too, and Richard killed him. Your womb let loose a hellhound that hunts us all to death. That dog, who was born with sharp teeth for lapping up the blood of lambs, who had teeth before he even had eyes, is the worlds worst tyrant, making the eyes of a whole kingdom red with weeping. He destroys Gods handiwork and will send us to our graves. Oh righteous God, how can I thank you enough that this meat-eating mutt preys on his mothers children and forces her to join others in their grief!"), ("Duchess", "O Harrys wife, do not triumph in my sorrow! With God as my witness, I swear I have wept for yours."), ("Queen margaret", "Bear with me. I am hungry for revenge, and now I plan to gorge myself on it. Your son Edward, who stabbed my son Edward, is dead. To even the balance, your grandson Edward is also dead, with young York thrown in because both your grandsons arent equal to my one son. Your Clarence, who stabbed my Edward, is also dead. And the audience to this insane playthe adulterer Hastings, as well as Rivers, Vaughan, and Greyhave been sent early to their graves. Richard, a fiendish spy for hell itself, still lives, but only long enough to buy souls to send below. Soon, very soon, he will meet his ghastly and well deserved end. When he dies, the earth will gape open, hell will burn hotter, devils will roar, and saints will pray to get him out of here fast. I pray that God ends his life before I die, so I can say, The dog is dead!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Oh, you prophesied that the time would come when I would want your help in cursing that humpbacked spider, that hideous toad!"), ("Queen margaret", "Back then, I called you a poor, imitation queen, a badly reproduced copy of what I was, a pretty prologue for the tragedy that was about to follow, a woman who was lifted high only to be hurled down to hell, a mother only teased with two beautiful children, who would soon die. I said you were a mere shadow of what a queen once was, a garish target to be aimed at again and again, an empty symbol of dignity without any substance, a mockery of a queen only there to fill in a role. And I was right, because wheres your husband now? Your brothers? Your two sons? Your source of joy? Who kneels at your feet now and says, God save the Queen? What noblemen are bowing and scraping to flatter you now? And where is your throng of followers? Once youve laid out all of these losses, its clear whats left. In place of a happy wife, theres a miserable widow. Instead of a joyful mother, heres a woman who cries at the mention of her children. For one who bestows favors on others, heres one who has to beg for favors. Instead of a queen, we have a poor woman with a crown of worries. She who mocked me now is mocked by me. She who once ordered everyone about is now obeyed by no one. Your fortune has fallen. Now you have only the memory of what you were, which tortures you when you consider what youve become. You once stole my position; now you get to have the grief that goes with it. Now like an ox, you carry half my heavy burden of griefhere, Ill give you the rest. Farewell, Yorks wife. Goodbye, queen of tragic misfortune. Your English sorrows will make me smile in France."), ("Queen elizabeth", "You who are so skilled in cursing, stay awhile and teach me how to curse my enemies."), ("Queen margaret", "Dont sleep at night, and dont eat during the day. Compare what youve lost with what you suffer now. Remember your children as being sweeter than they actually were, and think of the man who killed them as worse than he is. Making your loss greater makes the person who caused it worse. Think like this all day, and youll learn how to curse."), ("Queen elizabeth", "My words are dull. Enliven them with yours!"), ("Queen margaret", "Your misery will make them sharp and piercing like mine."), ("Duchess", "What good does it do to respond to catastrophe with a lot of words?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Words are a lot of useless breath, like lawyers who wont stop arguing for their sad clients, like a worthless inheritance, or like poor speech-makers who wont stop speaking. But give words a chance. Though they wont help in any other way, at least they make us feel better."), ("Duchess", "If thats true, then dont be tongue-tied. Come with me, and lets smother my fiendish sonwho smothered your two sweet sonsin bitter words. I hear his battle drums. Dont stint on your words."), ("Richard", "Whos blocking the way?"), ("Duchess", "The woman who might have blocked you from all the murders youve committed by strangling you in her cursed womb."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Are you hiding your forehead with a golden crown, when, if there was any justice in this world, it should be branded with the murders you committedyour slaughter of the prince who held that crown, and of my sons and my brothers? Tell me, you villainous lowlife, where are my children?"), ("Duchess", "You toad, where is your brother Clarence and his son, little Ned Plantagenet?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Where are the noble Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?"), ("Duchess", "Where is kind Hastings?"), ("Richard", "Play, trumpets! A call to arms, drums! Dont let the heavens hear these chattery women abuse the Lords anointed king. Play, I say! Either be calm and polite or Ill drown you out with the music of war."), ("Duchess", "Are you my son?"), ("Richard", "Yes, I thank God, my father, and yourself."), ("Duchess", "Then patiently listen to my impatience."), ("Richard", "Madam, Im a bit like you in that I cant tolerate a tone of disapproval."), ("Duchess", "Oh, let me speak!"), ("Richard", "Go ahead, but I wont listen."), ("Duchess", "Ill be gentle and mild."), ("Richard", "And brief, good motherIm in a hurry."), ("Duchess", "Are you that impatient? God knows I waited for you in anguish, pain, and agony when I gave birth to you."), ("Richard", "And didnt I finally arrive to comfort you?"), ("Duchess", "No, by God, you know perfectly well you arrived on earth to make it my hell. Your birth was incredibly painful; you were a fussy and difficult baby; as a schoolboy, you were frightening, wild, furious, and caused me despair; as a young man, you were daring, bold, and enterprising, and in your maturity, you have been haughty, bloody, and treacherousboth more mild and more harmful than before. So, what hour of comfort have I ever had in your company? Name one."), ("Richard", "I guess none except HumphreyHumphrey Hour is an obscure reference, though Shakespeare is probably playing off the expression, to dine with Duke Humphrey, which meant, to go hungry. Richard is saying, in effect, The only comfort you ever had was an hour you had without me, at breakfast time when you were hungry. Humphrey Hour, who once invited you to have breakfast without me. If I be such a disgrace in your eyes, let me march on and not offend you. Strike up the band!"), ("Duchess", "Please, listen to me."), ("Richard", "Youre too bitter."), ("Duchess", "Just listen this once. Ill never speak to you again."), ("Richard", "So be it."), ("Duchess", "Either you will die as you should, before youve had a chance to win this battle, or I will die from grief and age and never look upon your face again. So, take with you my heaviest curse, which I hope wears you out in battle even more than your heavy suit of armor will. I pray that the little souls of Edwards children will whisper to your enemies and promise them success and victory. You are violent, and your end will be violent. Your life was shameful, and let your death be, too."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Though I have far more reason, I dont have as much energy to curse you. But I say amen to everything she said."), ("Richard", "Wait, madam. I need to speak a word with you."), ("Queen elizabeth", "I have no more royal sons for you to murder. As for my daughters, Richard, they will become praying nuns, not weeping queens. So dont aim at them."), ("Richard", "You have a daughter named Elizabeth, who is virtuous and beautiful, aristocratic and full of grace."), ("Queen elizabeth", "And does she have to die for this? Oh, let her live, and Ill ruin her manners and her beauty. So that she may live, Ill say I cheated on Edward and that she is not really his child."), ("Richard", "Dont wrong her birth. She has royal blood."), ("Queen elizabeth", "To save her life, Ill say she doesnt."), ("Richard", "Her life is only safe if shes really of royal blood."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Yes, as safe as her brothers' lives were."), ("Richard", "They were born under unlucky stars."), ("Queen elizabeth", "The stars werent the problem. Bad friends were."), ("Richard", "You cant escape a bad destiny."), ("Queen elizabeth", "True, when a king who defies God is choosing that destiny. My children would have enjoyed a better death if God had blessed you with a purer life."), ("Richard", "You speak as if I had killed my nephews."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Nephews, indeed, cheated by their uncle of comfort, kingdom, relatives, freedom, and life. Whichever hand literally stabbed their tender hearts, youre the one who gave the order. No doubt the murderous knife was blunt till it was sharpened on your stony heartyou reveled in my lambs' bloody guts. But constant expression of wild grief will only make it tame, so Im not going to say any more about my boys until Ive gouged your eyes out with my bare hands. Like a sailboat that has lost its sails, I will throw myself on your rocky bosomand get torn to pieces."), ("Richard", "Madam, if I do as well as I think Im going to do in these dangerous, violent wars, you and your relatives will have more good at my hands than youve ever had bad!"), ("Queen elizabeth", "What good does heaven have in store that can do me any good now?"), ("Richard", "The advancement of your children, noble lady."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Advancement to some scaffold, to lose their heads."), ("Richard", "No, advancement to the dignity and height of honor, to a high, imperial kind of glory."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Flatter me in my mourning: tell me what dignity or honor you could possible bring to any child of mine?"), ("Richard", "The dignity of everything I own. In fact, I will give a child of yours everything plus myself, provided you forget the wrongs you imagine I have done to you."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Well, explainbut do it fast so that your puny store of kindness isnt used up by talking about it."), ("Richard", "Then know that from my soul I love your daughter."), ("Queen elizabeth", "I believe it."), ("Richard", "What do you believe?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "That you love my daughter to spite your soul. Thats the way you loved my brothers. And thats the way I thank you for it."), ("Richard", "Dont be so quick to twist my meaning. I mean that I love your daughter with all my soul. I intend to make her queen of England."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Tell me, who will be the king?"), ("Richard", "The one who makes her queen, of course. Who else should it be?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "What, you?"), ("Richard", "Yes, exactly. Me. What do you think, madam?"), ("Queen elizabeth", "How would you woo her?"), ("Richard", "Thats what I want to find out from you, who knows her best."), ("Queen elizabeth", "And will you learn from me?"), ("Richard", "Madam, with all my heart."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Okay, then. Do this: send her a pair of bleeding hearts. Make clear they come from the man who killed her brothers. Write Edward and York on them. That will get her to weep. Then present her with a handkerchief, like the one Margaret gave your father, which was steeped in his son Rutlands blood. Tell her this handkerchief sopped up the blood of her sweet brothers body and urge her to dry her weeping eyes with it. If this encouragement doesnt move her to love you, send her a description of your other noble deeds. Tell her how you secretly dispensed with her uncle Clarence, her uncle Rivers, and, for her sake, her good aunt Anne."), ("Richard", "Come, come, youre making fun of me. This is not the way to win your daughter."), ("Queen elizabeth", "There isnt any other way, unless you took on another form and became someone else."), ("Richard", "But suppose I did all the things you named out of love for her."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Then she has no choice but to hate you, as you purchased her love with murder."), ("Richard", "Whatever has already been done cant be undone now. Men act imprudently sometimes, then realize their mistakes when they have time to think about them. If I took the kingdom from your sons, Ill give it to your daughter to make up for it. If I have killed your children, I will have children with your daughter. A grandmother is loved hardly less than a mother is. Your grandchildren will be just one step removed from your own childrenthey share your character, your blood, and require the same effort minus that one night of labor, like that which you suffered through for your own daughter. Your children caused you trouble in your youth, but mine will bring you comfort in your old age. The only loss youve had is that your son was not king. Because of that loss, your daughter will be queen. I cant make up for everything that Id like to, so accept such kindness as I can offer. Your son Dorset, who fled in fear to join an army in France against me, could come home to high promotions and great dignity. The king who calls your beautiful daughter wife will call Dorset brother. And you will be the mother to a king again, with all the miseries of unhappy times not just repaired, but also improved. Indeed, we have many good days to look forward to! The tears you have shed will be transformed into pearls. Your happiness will be like a loan that has grown through interest to ten times its original size. Go, then, mother, to your daughter. Give her the benefit of your experience, and prepare her to hear me court her. Make her aspire to be queen. Tell the princess about the sweet, silent hours of joy there are in marriage. And when my army has chastised the petty rebel, that stupid Buckingham, I will return wreathed in victory crowns and lead your daughter to a conquerors bed. She will be the only victor over my triumphs. She will be the ruler of a Caesar."), ("Queen elizabeth", "What should I say to her? That her fathers brother wants to be her husband? Or should I say its her uncle? Or should I describe you as the one who killed her brothers and her uncles? How can I describe you that will make you appeal to the young woman and will also agree with God, the law, my honor, and her feelings?"), ("Richard", "Claim fair Englands peace depends on this alliance."), ("Queen elizabeth", "She will purchase that peace with an everlasting war."), ("Richard", "Tell her that the king, who has the power to command people, asks her."), ("Queen elizabeth", "He asks her to do what God forbidsThe Church forbid marriage between uncle and niece.forbids."), ("Richard", "Say she will be a high and mighty queen."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Only to watch that title become worthless, as her mother has."), ("Richard", "Say I will love her everlastingly."), ("Queen elizabeth", "But how long will ever last?"), ("Richard", "Until her beautiful lifes end."), ("Queen elizabeth", "But how long will her beautiful life last?"), ("Richard", "As long as heaven and nature extend it."), ("Queen elizabeth", "As long as hell and Richard want it."), ("Richard", "Tell her that I, her king, am her lowly subject."), ("Queen elizabeth", "But she, your subject, hates such a king."), ("Richard", "Be eloquent on my behalf."), ("Queen elizabeth", "An honest tale succeeds best when it is told simply."), ("Richard", "Then tell her my loving story in simple terms."), ("Queen elizabeth", "You cant tell a story simply when its a lie."), ("Richard", "Your answers are too shallow and too hasty."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Oh no, my reasons are deep and as permanent as death. Theyre buried as deep as my poor infants in their grave."), ("Richard", "Dont harp on that point, madamits past."), ("Queen elizabeth", "I will harp on it till my heartstrings break."), ("Richard", "Now, by St. George, my knighthood, and my crown"), ("Queen elizabeth", "The first you profaned, the second you dishonored, and the third you stole."), ("Richard", "I swear"), ("Queen elizabeth", "By nothing, because this is no oath. St. George loses his holiness once you have sworn by him; youve ruined the emblem of the knighthood, and the crown lost its kingly glory once you stole it. If you want me to believe something youll swear to, then swear by something you havent wronged."), ("Richard", "Then, by myself"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Youve misused yourself."), ("Richard", "Now, by the world"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Its full of your ugly wrongdoings."), ("Richard", "By my fathers death"), ("Queen elizabeth", "Your life has dishonored his death."), ("Richard", "Why then, by God"), ("Queen elizabeth", "You wrong God most of all. If you had been afraid to break an oath with him, you wouldnt have ruined the united front the king, my husband, created before he died, and you wouldnt have killed my brothers. If you had been afraid to break an oath with him, the crown you are currently wearing would have graced the head of my child, and both princes would still be alive, not preyed on by worms. What can you swear by now?"), ("Richard", "By the future."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Youve already wronged that by what you did in the past. I myself have many tears to cry in the time to come, because of what youve done. There are children living whose fathers you have slaughtered. When they are grown, they will wail about a childhood in which no one watched out for them. There are parents living whose children you have butchered; they are now old withered plants who will moan over their losses as they grow old. Dont swear by the future, because youve ruined it before it has even arrived."), ("Richard", "May I only do well in these dangerous battles if my intention to repent and prosper is sincere! Let me destroy myself, let heaven and destiny deprive me of happy hours, let day remain dark and night sleepless, and let me have nothing but terrible luck if I do not love with a pure heart, clean devotion, and holy thoughts your beautiful royal daughter. My happiness and yours lie in her. If I do not win her, death, desolation, and decay will descend on this land and on me, you, herself, and many a Christian soul. Ruin cannot be avoided unless I marry her. It will not be avoided unless I marry her. Therefore, good motherI must call you thatadvocate for me. Plead with your daughter about what I will be, not what I have been. Dont talk about my just desserts but about what I will deserve. Tell her how necessary this marriage is at this time, and dont be small-minded about such important plans."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Shall I be tempted by the devil?"), ("Richard", "Yes, if the devil tempts you to do good."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Shall I forget the wrongs youve done to me so that I can be the mother of a king again?"), ("Richard", "Yes, if your memories do you no good."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Yet you killed my children."), ("Richard", "But in your daughters womb I will bury them. In that rich nest they shall grow again, to console you."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Should I go convince my daughter to marry you?"), ("Richard", "And be a happy mother by doing so."), ("Queen elizabeth", "Im going. Write to me very soon and Ill let you know what she thinks."), ("Richard", "Give her a kiss from me, her true love. And so, goodbye. Weak-willed fool! Shallow, fickle woman! Hello! Whats the news?"), ("Ratcliffe", "My noble king, a powerful fleet of ships sails on the western coast. Many former friends of ours have gathered to meet the fleet and arent willing to beat it back. Word is that Richmond is the navys admiral. The ships are drifting off the coast, sails unfurled, only waiting for Buckingham to help them come ashore."), ("Richard", "Someone who can ride fast, go to the duke of NorfolkNorfolk was a York loyalisthe stood behind Edward IV and Richard III, and he died fighting for Richard. Norfolk. You go, Ratcliffe, or Catesby. Where is Catesby?"), ("Catesby", "Here, my good lord."), ("Richard", "Catesby, fly to the duke."), ("Catesby", "I will my lord, as fast as I can."), ("Richard", "Ratcliffe, come here. Ride to Salisbury. When you get there(to CATESBY) Stupid, distracted rascal, why are you still standing there? Why havent you left for the dukes?"), ("Catesby", "First, mighty king, tell me what you want me to tell him."), ("Richard", "Oh, right, good Catesby. Tell him to gather together the greatest army he can muster in a hurry and meet me right away at Salisbury."), ("Catesby", "Im off."), ("Ratcliffe", "What would you like me to do at Salisbury?"), ("Richard", "Why, what is there to do before I get there?"), ("Ratcliffe", "Your Highness just told me that I should ride there before you."), ("Richard", "I changed my mind. Stanley, what news do you have?"), ("Stanley", "Nothing that you want to hear, my lord, but nothing so bad that I cant mention it."), ("Richard", "Well, how nice, a riddle! Neither good nor bad. Why do you go around in circles when you could get to the point? Once again, whats the news?"), ("Stanley", "Richmond is sailing on the sea."), ("Richard", "Let him sink there so the sea will cover him! Lily-livered coward, whats he doing there?"), ("Stanley", "I dont know, mighty king. I can only guess."), ("Richard", "Well, what do you guess?"), ("Stanley", "That, stirred up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Morton, hes coming to England to claim the crown."), ("Richard", "Is the throne empty? Is the army without a leader? Is the king dead, the empire dispossessed? What heir of the York family is there alive other than myself? And who is Englands king but an heir of the great York? Therefore, tell me, what is he doing at sea?"), ("Stanley", "Unless its what I said, your Majesty, I have no idea."), ("Richard", "Unless hes coming to be your leader you cant guess why the WelshmansRichmond was a descendent of the Welshman Owen Tudor. Welshmans coming? You plan to revolt and join him, Im afraid."), ("Stanley", "No, mighty king, do not distrust me."), ("Richard", "Where is your army, then, to beat him back? Where are your tenants and your followers? Arent they at this very moment on the western shore helping the rebels land safely from their ships?"), ("Stanley", "No, my good lord, my friends are in the north."), ("Richard", "Then theyre cold friends to me. What are they doing in the north when they should be in the west serving their king?"), ("Stanley", "They havent been commanded to go to the west, mighty king. If your Majesty would like, Ill muster up my friends and meet you wherever and whenever you like."), ("Richard", "Yes, you want to go join Richmond. But Im not going to trust you."), ("Stanley", "Most mighty sovereign, you have no reason to doubt my friendship. I was never disloyal, and I never will be."), ("Richard", "Then go gather your men, but leave behind your son, George Stanley. Make sure your faith is firm, or he has little chance of keeping his head."), ("Stanley", "Treat him as my loyalty toward you calls for."), ("Messenger", "My noble king, my friends have informed me that Sir Edward Courtney and his brother, the haughty Bishop of Exeter, are now in DevonshireDevonshire: a county in southwest EnglandDevonshire, where they have assembled an army."), ("Second messenger", "My king, the Guildfords in KentKent: a count ysoutheast of LondonKent have armed themselves, and every hour new associates flock to their aid, and their army increases."), ("Third messenger", "My lord, the duke of Buckinghams army"), ("Richard", "Enough, you owlsThe cry of the owl was thought to be a death omen.owls! Do you have nothing but songs of death? (he strikes the THIRD MESSENGER) Take that until you bring me better news."), ("Third messenger", "The news I have to tell your majesty is that Buckinghams army has dispersed from sudden floods and heavy rainfall. Buckingham himself has wandered away alone to who knows where."), ("Richard", "I beg your pardon. Heres some money to make up for that blow I gave you. (he gives money) Has any intelligent friend of ours offered a reward to whoever catches the traitor?"), ("Third messenger", "Yes, your Highness."), ("Fourth messenger", "Its been reported that Sir Thomas Lovell and Lord Marquess Dorset have assembled an army in YorkshireYorkshire: a town in northern EnglandYorkshire, my lord. But I bring your Grace this comfort: a storm has dispersed the navy from Brittany. And Richmond, who is in DorsetshirDorsetshire: a county on Englands south coastDorsetshire, sent a boat to shore to ask the men on the banks if they were on his side, yes or no. They said they were with Buckingham. Richmond didnt trust them. He hoisted sail again and sailed back to Brittany."), ("Richard", "Lets keep marching since were prepared to fight. Even if we dont fight foreign enemies, well beat down these rebels at home."), ("Catesby", "Your Majesty, the duke of Buckingham has been capturedthats the best news. The fact that the earl of Richmond has landed in MilfordMilford Haven is on the coast of Wales. Milford with a mighty army is less good news, but it must be told."), ("Richard", "Away toward Salisbury! While were talking here, a royal battle could be won and lost. Someone deliver the order that Buckingham be brought to Salisbury. Everyone else, march on with me."), ("Stanley", "Sir Christopher, relay this message to Richmond: My son George Stanley is penned up in the bloody boars sty. If I revolt, off goes young Georges head. My fear of that prevents me from helping Richmond at this time. But, tell me, where is the noble Richmond now?"), ("Christopher", "At Pembroke, or at Harfordwest in Wales."), ("Stanley", "Which noblemen have joined him?"), ("Christopher", "Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier; Sir Gilbert Talbot; Sir William Stanley; Oxford; the highly feared Pembroke; Sir James Blunt; Rice ap Thomas, with a valiant crew; and many other famous and powerful noblemen. They plan to head straight to London, assuming they dont encounter any resistance on the way."), ("Stanley", "(giving him a paper) Return to your lord. Give him my best regards. Tell him the queen has given her heartfelt consent to his marriage to her daughter, Elizabeth. And these letters will let him know what my thinking is. Goodbye, and take care."), ("Buckingham", "Wont King Richard let me speak with him?"), ("Sheriff", "No, my good lord. So be calm."), ("Buckingham", "Hastings and Edwards children, Rivers and Grey, holy King Henry and your fine son Edward, Vaughan, and all who have died from underhanded, corrupt, fiendish injustice, if your angry souls are witnessing this moment through the clouds, enjoy the revengelaugh at my ruin! This is All-SoulsA Catholic day of prayer for souls stuck in between Heaven and HellAll-Souls day, fellows, isnt it?"), ("Sheriff", "It is, my lord."), ("Buckingham", "Why, then, its my bodys doomsday. Today Im going to get what I said I wished would happen to me if I was ever false to King Edwards children or his wifes allies. This is the day Im going to get what I wished for when I wished that the person I most trusted would betray me. This, this All-Souls' day, is my just desserts. I tried to play games with God, and he turned my fake prayer on my head, giving me for real what Id asked for as a joke. This is how God forces wicked men to turn their swords against themselves. Margarets curse has come true. When Richard has split your heart in two with grief, she said, youll know that Margaret was a prophetess. Come, sirs, bring me to this block of shame. I have done wrong, so I will suffer wrong. I have been blamed because I deserved to be."), ("Richmond", "Fellow soldiers and my loyal friends suffering under that tyrant Richard, we have marched all the way to the center of England without encountering any opposition. And now we receive encouraging news from my stepfather Stanley: Richardthat violent, greedy boar who roots through your summer fields and ripening vines, guzzles your warm blood, and makes his trough in your disemboweled belliesis now near the town of Leicester, only one days march from us here in TamworthTamworth is in central England. Tamworth. In Gods name, lets continue on in high spirits, my courageous friends. Our aim is to achieve everlasting peace from this one violent war."), ("Oxford", "Every mans conscience is a thousand swords against this murderer."), ("Herbert", "I suspect his friends will join us."), ("Blunt", "He has no friends except those who are too afraid to defy him. In his greatest need, even they will desert him."), ("Richmond", "All to our advantage. So, in Gods name, lets march. Hope with good cause is swift; it flies as fast as a swallow. It turns kings into gods and men of lower rank into kings."), ("Richard", "Lets pitch our tents right here in Bosworth Field. My Lord of Surrey, why do you look so sad?"), ("Surrey", "My heart is ten times lighter than my looks."), ("Richard", "My Lord of Norfolk"), ("Norfolk", "Here, most gracious king."), ("Richard", "Norfolk, were going to have a few blows, right?"), ("Norfolk", "Weve got to give them and take them, my lord."), ("Richard", "Put my tent up! Ill lie here tonight. But where will I lie tomorrow? Well, it doesnt matter. Does anyone know the number of the enemys troops?"), ("Norfolk", "Six or seven thousand, at most."), ("Richard", "Why, our troops amount to three times that. Besides, the kings name is a tower of strength; the opposition doesnt have that advantage. Put up my tent! Come, noble gentlemen, let us look at our battle plan and get some experienced officers to help us figure out the best strategy. Lets be disciplined and not delay, because tomorrow is a busy day."), ("Richmond", "The sunset was golden and left a bright track in the sky, which indicates that tomorrow will be a good day. Sir William Brandon, you will carry my flag. Bring some ink and paper to my tent, and Ill draw a model of our battle, appoint each leader to his particular command, and carefully divide up our small army. My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon, and you, Sir Walter Herbert, are going to stay with me. The earl of Pembroke will stick with his regiment. Good Captain Blunt, tell the earl goodnight from me, and tell him that by two in the morning I would like him to visit my tent. One more thing before you go, Bluntwhere is Lord Stanley lodging, do you know?"), ("Blunt", "Unless Ive mistaken his battle flags, which Im sure I havent, his regiment lies at least half a mile south of the kings mighty army."), ("Richmond", "If its possible to do this without putting yourself in danger, dear Captain Blunt, say goodnight to him from me and give him this important note."), ("Blunt", "Upon my life, my lord, Ill do it. Have a restful night!"), ("Richmond", "Good night, dear Captain Blunt. Come, gentlemen, lets discuss tomorrows action in my tent. The night air is too raw and cold for us to stay outdoors."), ("Richard", "What time is it?"), ("Catesby", "Its dinnertime, my lord. Its nine o'clock."), ("Richard", "Im not going to eat dinner tonight. Give me some ink and paper. Is the visor of my helmet working better now? And has my armor been put in my tent?"), ("Catesby", "Yes, my lord. Everythings ready."), ("Richard", "My good man Norfolk, hurry to your post. Be careful whom you choose as guardsmake sure theyre trustworthy."), ("Norfolk", "Im off, my lord."), ("Richard", "Get up early tomorrowat the sound of the larknoble Norfolk."), ("Norfolk", "I will, my lord."), ("Richard", "Catesby."), ("Catesby", "Yes, my lord?"), ("Richard", "Send a junior officer to Stanleys regiment to tell Stanley to bring his men here before sunriseif he wants to see his son George alive. (to soldiers) Get me some wine. Get a soldier to stand watch outside my tent. Saddle my white horse Surrey for battle tomorrow. Make sure the shafts of my lances are solid, but not too heavy. Ratcliffe!"), ("Ratcliffe", "Yes, my lord?"), ("Richard", "Did you see the gloomy Lord Northumberland?"), ("Ratcliffe", "Thomas, the earl of Surrey, and he were moving from troop to troop around twilight cheering up the soldiers."), ("Richard", "Good, Im satisfied. Give me some wineI dont feel as energetic as I used to. Set it down. Is my ink and paper ready?"), ("Ratcliffe", "It is, my lord."), ("Richard", "Make sure my guard is on duty and leave me alone. Ratcliffe, around midnight come to my tent and help me put on my armor. Now leave me alone, as I said."), ("Stanley", "Let fortune and victory be yours!"), ("Richmond", "I wish you all the comfort that such a dark night as this can offer, noble father-in-law. Tell me, how is my mother?"), ("Stanley", "Your mother sends her blessings. She prays continually on your behalf. Enough about thatmorning will be here soon. To be briefas the occasion requiresprepare to fight early in the morning, when your future will be decided. I cant do everything I want to, but Ill help you as well as I can. But I cant be too obvious about being on your side without risking the life of your stepbrother, young George. If Im seen helping you, George will be killed right in front of my eyes. Farewell. The lack of time and the risk Im under will have to keep us from bonding and catching up on each others news the way we usually would after not seeing each other for so long. I hope we have the time some day! Again, goodbye. Be brave and do well!"), ("Richmond", "Good lords, escort him to his regiment. Im going to try to take a nap despite my racing thoughts so that exhaustion wont get the better of me tomorrow, when Ill need to ride as if my horse had wings. Again, good night, kind lords and gentlemen. Oh God, whose side I think Im fighting on, look kindly on my forces. Fuel them with dangerous fury, so they can crush the enemy. Make us your agents of revenge, so we can praise you when were victorious! Before I fall asleep, I entrust my soul to you. Defend me, God, both when Im asleep and when Im awake. He sleeps."), ("Ghost of prince edward", "(to RICHARD) I will weigh heavily on your soul tomorrow. Remember how you stabbed me at Tewksbury, when I was just a young man. Despair, and die! (to RICHMOND) Be cheerful, Richmondbutchered princes fight for you. I, King Henrys son, will provide you with comfort."), ("Ghost of king henry vi", "(to RICHARD) When I was still alive, you punctured my body, the body of Gods blessed king, full of holes. Remember the Tower and me there. Despair, and die! Harry the Sixth commands you to despair and die! (to RICHMOND) Because you are virtuous and holy, you must be the conqueror! Harry, who prophesied that you would be king, comforts you in your sleep: live and prosper!"), ("Ghost of clarence", "(to RICHARD) I hope I weigh heavily on your soul tomorrow! Its me, drowned to death in a nauseating barrel of wine. Its me, poor Clarence, whom you betrayed to death! Tomorrow in battle, think of me and drop your useless sword. Despair, and die! (to RICHMOND) Offspring of the House of Lancaster, the wronged heirs of York pray for you. Good angels protect your fight! Live and prosper!"), ("Ghost of rivers", "(to RICHARD) I will weigh heavily on your soul tomorrowI, Rivers, who died at Pomfret. Despair, and die!"), ("Ghost of grey", "(to RICHARD) Think about Grey, and despair!"), ("Ghost of vaughan", "(to RICHARD) Think about Vaughan, and drop your lance from fear and guilt. Despair, and die!"), ("All", "(to RICHMOND) Awaken, and have faith that the wrongs Richard carries in his heart will defeat him! Awaken, and win the day!"), ("Ghosts of princes", "(to RICHARD) Dream about your nephews, smothered in the Tower. Let us rest in your heart as heavily as lead, Richard, and drag you down to ruin, shame, and death! Your nephews' souls command that you despair and die! (to RICHMOND) Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace and wake in joy. Good angels will protect you from the boars attacks! Live, and give birth to a whole, happy race of kings! Edwards unlucky sons want you to flourish."), ("Ghost of hastings", "(to RICHARD) You violent, guilty man, wake up full of guilt and end your days in a bloody battle! Think about Lord Hastings. Despair, and die! (to RICHMOND) Quiet untroubled soul, wake up! Arm yourself, fight, and win for beautiful Englands sake!"), ("Ghost of anne", "(to RICHARD) Richard, your wife, your wretched wife, Anne, who never enjoyed a quiet hour of sleep with you, now fills your sleep with disturbing thoughts. Tomorrow in battle think of me and fall on your sword: despair, and die! (to RICHMOND) You quiet soul, sleep a quiet sleep. Dream of success and happy victory. Your enemys wife is praying for you."), ("Ghost of buckingham", "(to RICHARD) I was the first to help you to the crown and the last to feel the effects of your tyranny. Think of Buckingham when youre fighting tomorrow, and die terrified of the sins youve committed! Tonight, dream of bloody deeds and death. Tomorrow, when you lose heart, fall into despair and then death. (to RICHMOND) I died before I could help you as I was hoping to. But be cheerful and dont worry. God and good angels fight on your side, and Richard will fall at the height of his false pride."), ("Richard", "Give me another horse! Bandage my wounds! Have mercy, Jesus! Wait, I was only dreaming. Oh cowardly conscience, how youre torturing me! The candles burn bluethat means its the dead of night. Im sweating and trembling with fear. But what am I afraid of? Myself? Theres no one else here. Richard loves Richard, that is, theres just me and myself here. Is there a murderer here? No. Yes, I am. Then run away. What, from myself? Yes, to avoid taking revenge on myself. Unfortunately, I love myself. Why? Did I do anything good to myself? Oh, no. Alas, I hate myself instead, because of the hateful deeds Ive committed. I am a villain. But Im lying; Im not a villain. Fool, speak well of yourself. Fool, do not flatter yourself. Give me another horse! Bandage my wounds! Have mercy, Jesus! Wait, I was only dreaming. Oh cowardly conscience, how youre torturing me! The candles burn bluethat means its the dead of night. Im sweating and trembling with fear. But what am I afraid of? Myself? Theres no one else here. Richard loves Richard, that is, theres just me and myself here. Is there a murderer here? No. Yes, I am. Then run away. What, from myself? Yes, to avoid taking revenge on myself. Unfortunately, I love myself. Why? Did I do anything good to myself? Oh, no. Alas, I hate myself instead, because of the hateful deeds Ive committed. I am a villain. But Im lying; Im not a villain. Fool, speak well of yourself. Fool, do not flatter yourself."), ("Ratcliffe", "My lord."), ("Richard", "Damn it, whos there?"), ("Ratcliffe", "Ratcliffe, my lord, its me. The rooster has already crowed twice. Your friends are up and buckling on their armor."), ("Richard", "Oh Ratcliffe, I had a terrifying dream! What do you think, will my friends prove loyal?"), ("Ratcliffe", "No doubt, my lord."), ("Richard", "Oh Ratcliffe, Im afraid, Im afraid"), ("Ratcliffe", "No, my good lord, dont be afraid of dreams."), ("Richard", "By St. Paul, ghosts have struck more terror in my soul tonight than ten thousand of worthless Richmonds soldiers could, dressed up in their most sword-proof armor. Its not yet daylight. Come with me; Ill spy under the tents to see if any of my own people plan to desert me."), ("Lords", "Good morning, Richmond."), ("Richmond", "Pardon me, lords and gentlemen who stayed awake. Youve caught me oversleeping."), ("A lord", "How did you sleep, my lord?"), ("Richmond", "Since you left, Ive been enjoying the sweetest sleep and most promising dreams Ive ever had, my lords. I dreamed the souls of the people Richard murdered came to my tent and promised me victory. I tell you, I feel very jolly remembering such a beautiful dream. How late is it, lords?"), ("Lords", "Its almost four."), ("Richmond", "Why, then, its time to put on my armor and instruct the troops. (to his soldiers) I cant tell you much right now, loyal countrymen, because we dont have time. But know this: We have God and a good cause on our side. The prayers of saints and those that Richard wronged support us like high-walled fortresses. Other than Richard, even those whom we fight against would rather we won. Because who is this man they follow? Truly, gentlemen, a violent tyrant and a murderer, who rose to his high position by shedding blood and kept the position the same way. He rose to the top by means of others and then slaughtered them. Hes like a worthless stone, who only seems like a valuable gem because hes on the throne, where he doesnt belong. He has always been Gods enemy. And when you fight Gods enemy, God will protect you. If you struggle to bring down a tyrant, you will sleep peacefully when the tyrant is killed. When you fight against your countrys enemies, you will be paid for your efforts with your countrys wealth. If you fight to protect your wives, your wives will welcome you home as conquerors. When you free your children from the sword, your grandchildren will repay you in your old age. So, in the name of God and all the good that will come of this battleIn the Middle Ages, noblemen taken in battle often could go free afterward if they paid the enemy. Richmond says if Richard captures him, he will die rather than pay for his freedom.battle, march with your flags high and draw your swords. As for me, if I fail, the only ransom I will offer the enemy is my corpse. But if I succeed, every one of you will share in the profit. Play boldly and cheerfully, drummers and trumpeters. Heres to God and Saint George! To Richmond and victory!"), ("Richard", "What did Northumberland say about Richmond?"), ("Ratcliffe", "That he was never trained as a soldier."), ("Richard", "Thats true. And what did Surrey say to that?"), ("Ratcliffe", "He smiled and said, The better for us."), ("Richard", "Hes right, and thats how it is. Read the time there. Give me an almanac. (looking in an almanac) Did anyone see the sun today?"), ("Ratcliffe", "I didnt, my lord."), ("Richard", "Then it refuses to shine. According to this almanac, it should have risen an hour ago. Itll be a black day for somebody today. Ratcliffe!"), ("Ratcliffe", "My lord?"), ("Richard", "The sun will not appear today. The sky frowns and scowls on our army. I wish there wasnt so much dew on the ground. So, the sun wont shine today! Well, why should that be worse for me than it is for Richmond? The same heaven thats frowning on me looks gloomily on him."), ("Norfolk", "Get ready, my lord. The enemy is making its appearance on the battlefield."), ("Richard", "Hurry, hurryprepare my horse. Tell Lord Stanley to bring his army. I will lead my soldiers to the field and the battle formation will be like this: the vanguard will extend in a line that is equal parts horsemen and foot soldiers. The archers will stay in the middle. John Duke of Norfolk and Thomas Earl of Surrey will lead the horsemen and foot soldiers. Ill follow in the center of the troop formation, which Ill defend with my best horse, and with Saint George on my side, as well! What do you think, Norfolk?"), ("Norfolk", "A good plan, warrior king. I found this pinned to my tent this morning."), ("Richard", "(reads) Jackie of Norfolk, dont be too bold, for Dick your master has been betrayed. Something the enemy devised. Go, gentleman, every man to his command. Dont let babbling dreams frighten usconscience is just a word that cowards use to intimidate the strong. The strong fight we put on will be our conscience, our swords will be our law. March on, be brave in battle, and lets go pell-mell to heaven, if not hand in hand to hell. (to his army) What more can I say? Remember who youre dealing witha random bunch of bums, rascals, runaways, Breton scum, and peasant hangers-on whom an overcrowded nation vomits out to populate every desperate, sure-to-fail enterprise. You have been sleeping soundly, and they bring unrest. You own land they want to steal. Those of you who are blessed with beautiful wives, they want to defile them. And whos leading them but an inconsequential fellow who for the longest time lived in Brittany at his mothers expense? A girly man, a man who never in his life felt more cold than seeps into ones boots in the snow? Lets send these stragglers back over the sea. Lets whip these arrogant relics of Francethese starving beggars, tired of their lives, who would have hanged themselves, poor rats, if it werent for this foolish enterprise theyve been dreaming aboutback to France. If were going to be conquered, let men conquer us, and not these French bastards whom our forefathers already beat, thrashed, and pummeled on their own turf, and shamed them forever in the history books. Should these people enjoy our lands? Sleep with our wives? Rape our daughters? Listen! I hear their drums. Fight, gentlemen of England! Fight, brave landlords! Draw your bows all the way back, archers! Spur your proud horses hard, horsemen, and ride in blood. Startle even the sky with the sound of your lances cracking. What does Lord Stanley say? Will he bring his army?"), ("Messenger", "My lord, he refuses to come."), ("Richard", "Off with his son Georges head!"), ("Norfolk", "My lord, the enemy has already passed the marsh. Let George Stanley die after the battle."), ("Richard", "A thousand hearts beat in my chest. Lets advance our flags, set upon our enemies, and have our ancient saint of courage, good Saint George, inspire us with the fury of fiery dragons! Lets go! Victory is with us."), ("Catesby", "Help, my lord of Norfolk, help, help! The king performs more wonders than seem humanly possible, challenging every enemy he sees. His horse is killed, so hes fighting on foot, risking his life to search out Richmond. Help, dear lord, or the battle will be lost!"), ("Richard", "A horse, a horse, Id give my kingdom for a horse!"), ("Catesby", "Get off the field, my lord. Ill find you another horse."), ("Richard", "Peasant, I have gambled my life on this one throw of the dice, and Im willing to take what comes. I think there are six Richmonds on the field. Ive killed five that looked like him, anyway. A horse, a horse! Id give my kingdom for a horse!"), ("Richmond", "God and your work be praised, victorious friends. The day is ours. The bloody dog is dead."), ("Stanley", "(offering him the crown) Courageous Richmond, you fought well. Here, Ive taken back the stolen crown from that violent lowlife so it can grace your brows. Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it."), ("Richmond", "Great God of heaven, say amen to all this! But, tell me, is young George Stanley alive?"), ("Stanley", "He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester, where, if youd like, we can retreat to."), ("Richmond", "Which gentlemen on each side have been killed?"), ("Stanley", "John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers, Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon."), ("Richmond", "Bury them in a manner appropriate to their noble births. Proclaim that Ill pardon the soldiers who fled if they will return and submit to my rule. As I vowed, I will unite the York and Lancaster families. Heaven, for a long time you have frowned upon the hatred between them. Smile, then, on this beautiful union. What traitor hears me and doesnt say amen? England has long been so crazy that she was willing to hurt herself, brothers blindly shed their brothers' blood, fathers rashly slaughtered their own sons, sons were forced to butcher their fathers. All this further divided the two families, which were already so badly divided. Now let Richmond and Elizabeth, the true heirs of each royal house, be joined together! And let their heirs, if you are willing, God, enrich the future with peace and plenty! Gracious Lord, blunt the swords of those traitors who mean to tear poor England apart again! Let those who would mar this fair lands peace with treason die before they can enjoy its wealth. Civil wounds now can heal, and peace can live again. So that England may live a long life like this, let God say amen!")]