[("Philo", "No, our generals infatuation is out of control. His eyes used to glow with pride when he reviewed his troops. Now his eyes devote themselves exclusively to a certain brown-skinned face. His heart used to burst the buckles on his breastplate in great fights, but now hes lost all temperance and dedicates his heart to satisfying the lust of an Egyptian whore. Look at them. Take a good look, and youll see that one of the three men who rule the world has turned into a whores jester. Look and see."), ("Cleopatra", "If what you feel is really love, tell me how much."), ("Antony", "It would be a pretty stingy love if it could be counted and calculated."), ("Cleopatra", "I want to measure the extent of your love, to see how far it stretches."), ("Antony", "Then you would have to go beyond heaven, beyond earth."), ("Messenger", "I have news from Rome, my good lord."), ("Antony", "Which irritaties me. Give me a summary."), ("Cleopatra", "No, listen to it, Antony. Perhaps FulviaFulvia is Marc Antonys wife. Fulvia is angry with you. Who knows, maybe the baby-faced CaesarOctavius Caesar was only in his twenties at this time, about twenty years younger than Antony.baby-faced Caesar has orders for you: Do this, do that; conquer that kingdom, liberate this one. Do it or well condemn you."), ("Antony", "What, my love?"), ("Cleopatra", "Maybe? No, most likely. You cant stay here any longer. Caesar has sent your dismissal, so pay attention, Antony. Wheres Fulvias summonsexcuse me, I should have said Caesars. Or do Fulvia and Caesar both beckon you back to Rome? Call in the messengers and well find out. As surely as I am the queen of Egypt, Antony, youre blushing, which means youre Caesars servant. Or that that bitch Fulvia still has the power to humiliate you. Call the messengers!"), ("Antony", "Let Rome be washed away in the TiberRome was built on the river Tiber. Let Rome be washed away in the Tiber and let the great empire fall. My place is here. Kingdoms are only dirt. The soil feeds animals as well as people, so how does having a kingdom separate humans from beasts? The noblest thing is to do what were doing, particularly when the couple is as well matched as we are. I demand that the world admit we are the perfect couple or else suffer the consequences."), ("Cleopatra", "(to herself) What an enormous lie! Why did he marry Fulvia if he didnt love her? Ill pretend to be a fool and believe him. Hell never change."), ("Antony", "(overhearing the last sentence) Unless he is moved and inspired by Cleopatra. Now, since we love the feeling of being in love, lets not spoil the mood with serious discussion. We shouldnt spend a minute without some kind of amusement. What shall we do tonight?"), ("Cleopatra", "Meet with the ambassadors."), ("Antony", "Shame on you, stubborn Queen! Everything you do is attractivescolding, laughing, cryingevery emotion seems admirable when you express it. I wont see any messengers but yours. Tonight well wander through the streets and observe the people. Come, my Queen. Thats what you wanted to do last night. (to the MESSENGER ) Dont talk to us."), ("Demetrius", "Does Antony have so little respect for Caesar?"), ("Philo", "Sir, sometimes hes like a different person, a person who cant measure up to the former Antony."), ("Demetrius", "Im sad to say this confirms the stories being told about him in Rome, which I had taken to be lies. Well, Ill hope things change for the better soon. Have a good night!"), ("Charmian", "Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most anything Alexas, almost the most consummate Alexas, wheres the fortuneteller you recommended so highly to the Queen? Oh, I only wish I knew the name of that husband you said he predicted will have a cheating wife!"), ("Alexas", "(calling) Fortuneteller!"), ("Fortuneteller", "What can I do for you?"), ("Charmian", "(to ALEXAS ) Is this the man you recommended? (to the FORTUNETELLER ) Are you the man who knows the future?"), ("Fortuneteller", "I can understand a few of natures infinite secrets."), ("Alexas", "(to CHARMIAN ) Give him your hand to read."), ("Enobarbus", "(to the servants) Bring the dessert in right away, and make sure theres enough wine to toast Cleopatras health."), ("Charmian", "(giving her hand to the FORTUNETELLER ) Kind sir, give me a good fortune."), ("Fortuneteller", "I dont make fortunes; I only see them."), ("Charmian", "Then see a good one for me."), ("Fortuneteller", "Your beauty will be even greater than it is now."), ("Charmian", "(to the others) He means Ill get fat."), ("Iras", "No, he means youll use makeup when youre old."), ("Charmian", "May my wrinkles forbid that!"), ("Alexas", "Dont joke about his predictions. Pay attention."), ("Charmian", "Quiet!"), ("Fortuneteller", "You will love more than you are loved."), ("Charmian", "I would rather get passion from drinkPassion was thought to originate in the liver, which could be stimulated by drink. I would rather get passion from drink than from love."), ("Alexas", "Just listen to him."), ("Charmian", "Be kind now and tell me some excellent fortune. Tell me that Ill marry three kings before noon and be widowed by all of them. Tell me Ill have a child when Im fifty who will be honored even by Herod of JudeaHerod was the Roman governor of Israel at the time of Christs birth. In an attempt to kill Jesus, prophesied to become king of the Jews, Herod ordered the slaughter of all the infants in Bethlehem. Herod of Judea. Let me marry Octavius Caesar and become my Queens equal."), ("Fortuneteller", "You will outlive the Queen."), ("Charmian", "Oh, excellent! I love long life better than figsFigs were thought to resemble female genitalia.figs."), ("Fortuneteller", "You have already had better fortune than the future will bring."), ("Charmian", "Then my children will probably be illegitimate. Tell me, please: how many boys and girls will I have?"), ("Fortuneteller", "If every time you wished for a child you could have had one, you would have a million children."), ("Charmian", "Get out of here, you fool! Since youre a fortuneteller I wont bring charges of witchcraft against you."), ("Alexas", "You seem to think no one outside of your bedroom knows what you wish."), ("Charmian", "(to FORTUNETELLER ) Never mind. Tell Irass fortune."), ("Alexas", "Well all want our fortune told."), ("Enobarbus", "My fortunelike that of many of us tonightis to go drunk to bed."), ("Iras", "(giving her hand to the FORTUNETELLER ) Theres a palm that will predict a chaste life, if nothing else."), ("Charmian", "Like the overflowing NileThe Nile River overflowed its banks every year, irrigating the surrounding farmland and guaranteeing a good harvest.overflowing Nile predicts famine."), ("Iras", "Oh stop it, you lusty bed-hopper. You cant see the future."), ("Charmian", "Well, if a moist palm isnt a clear sign of promiscuity, then I cant scratch my own ear. (to FORTUNETELLER ) Please, tell her an ordinary fortune."), ("Fortuneteller", "Your fortunes are the same."), ("Iras", "But how? How is that possible? Give me details."), ("Fortuneteller", "Ive said what I have to say."), ("Iras", "Isnt my fortune just a little better than hers? By an inch, even?"), ("Charmian", "Well, if you could have just an inch of better fortune than me, where would you like the improvement?"), ("Iras", "Not in my husbands nose."), ("Charmian", "May heaven save us from indecent thoughts! Alexas! (to the FORTUNETELLER ) Come and tell his fortune. Let him marry a woman he cant satisfy, dear IsisIsis was Egypts primary female deity, generally associated with the earth, the moon, and fertility. Isis, I pray! And then let her die, and give him someone worse. Then let her die, and let her replacement be even worse. And so on until the last one, who is unfaithful with at least fifty other men and laughs at him until he dies. I beg you to grant my prayer, good Isis, even though it means you deny me something more important for myself. Good Isis, I beg you!"), ("Iras", "Amen, dear goddess. Listen to our prayer. If its sad to see a handsome man with a cheating wife, its a tragedy to see an ugly thug with a wife whos faithful. Therefore, dear Isis, do the right thing and give him the fortune he deserves."), ("Charmian", "Amen."), ("Alexas", "(to himself) See! If they could make me a cuckold, theyd whore themselves in order to see it done."), ("Enobarbus", "Quiet! Here comes Antony."), ("Charmian", "Its not him; its the Queen."), ("Cleopatra", "Have you seen my lord?"), ("Enobarbus", "No, lady."), ("Cleopatra", "Wasnt he here?"), ("Charmian", "No, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "He was in a good mood, and then suddenly he started thinking of Rome. Enobarbus?"), ("Enobarbus", "Madam?"), ("Cleopatra", "Find him and bring him here. Wheres Alexas?"), ("Alexas", "Here, at your service. Here comes my lord."), ("Cleopatra", "I wont see him. In the original text, Cleopatra refers to herself in the plural to denote her royal status. I wont see him. Everyone come with me."), ("First messenger", "Your wife, Fulvia, mustered her army first."), ("Antony", "Against my brother Lucius?"), ("First messenger", "Yes. But that war ended as soon as circumstances made it advisable for them to join together against Caesar. But in their very first battle, Caesar won and drove them out of Italy."), ("Antony", "Well, give me the worst news."), ("First messenger", "The bearer of bad news is often blamed for it."), ("Antony", "Only if the hearer is a fool or a coward. Go on. As far as Im concerned, whats past is done. Its like this: as long as a person tells me the truth, even though it means my death, I will listen as though he praised me."), ("First messenger", "The news is disturbing. LabienusQuintus Labienus was a Roman general charged with subduing Parthia, a hostile country in Asia Minor, and garnering Parthinian military support in the war against Antony and Octavius Caesar. When Cassius and Brutus were defeated, Labienus led the Parthians in a war against Rome, conquering some of the Roman territories in Asia along the way. Labienus, with the army he led in Parthia, has conquered all of Asia, all the way to the Euphrates River, including Syria, Lydia, and Ionia, while"), ("Antony", "While Antony... is what you want to say."), ("First messenger", "Oh, my lord!"), ("Antony", "Speak plainly. Dont tone down what the people are saying. Call Cleopatra what the Romans call her. Use Fulvias abusive language. Freely scold me for my faults with as much severity as an enemy with truth on his side. Its easy to err when left to our own devices, but criticism helps us to see our faults and correct them. Good-bye for a while."), ("First messenger", "Ill be at your service."), ("Antony", "Whats the news from SicyonSicyon is the town in Greece where Antony left Fulvia. Sicyon. Tell me."), ("Second messenger", "The man from Sicyon"), ("Antony", "Is he here?"), ("Second messenger", "Hes waiting outside."), ("Antony", "Have him come in. (to himself) I must break Cleopatras powerful hold over me or else Ill lose myself in foolish infatuation. Whats your message?"), ("Third messenger", "Your wife, Fulvia, is dead."), ("Antony", "Where did she die?"), ("Third messenger", "In Sicyon. In this letter youll find details of her illness and other, more serious matters that concern you."), ("Antony", "Leave me. (to himself) A great spirit has gone from the world! This is what I wanted. Once its gone, the very thing we reject becomes what we desire. Whats enjoyable one day becomes the opposite as time rolls around. Now that shes gone, I want her. Now I would call her back, though I pushed her away. I have to break from this beguiling Queen. The time Ive wasted here has caused ten thousand more problems than the ones I know about. (calling) Are you there, Enobarbus?"), ("Enobarbus", "What would you like, sir?"), ("Antony", "I have to leave right away."), ("Enobarbus", "That will kill our lovers. We know how much they suffer if we are unkind to them. If we leave, it will feel like nothing less than death to them."), ("Antony", "I must be gone."), ("Enobarbus", "If its that important, then let the women die. It would be a pity to throw them away for nothing, but if its a matter of choosing between them and a great cause, then theyre worthless. If Cleopatra hears even a breath of this, shell die immediately. Ive seen her claim to be dying twenty times before, and for far less reason. I think there must be something invigorating about death, since she dies with such enthusiasm."), ("Antony", "Shes more cunning than anyone can imagine."), ("Enobarbus", "Alas, sir, no, her feelings come from pure love, not cleverness. Her sighs and tears are like great winds and floods. She has more storms and tempests in her than a weather almanac. Her temper is not a trick or a skillif it is, she can make it rain as well as Joveking of the Roman gods; commands thunder, lightning, and rainJove."), ("Antony", "I wish Id never seen her!"), ("Enobarbus", "Then youd have missed an amazing piece of work, sir, and your trip would have been poorer for the loss."), ("Antony", "Fulvia is dead."), ("Enobarbus", "Pardon me?"), ("Antony", "Fulvia is dead."), ("Enobarbus", "Fulvia?"), ("Antony", "Dead."), ("Enobarbus", "Then you should offer the gods a sacrifice to show your thanks. When a mans wife dies, he can be comforted by the knowledge that there are replacements to be found. If Fulvia were the last woman on earth, there would be a reason to grieve. But in this way, grief and comfort appear together. The only kind of tears you should shed in this case are the kind you might get from holding an onion to your nose."), ("Antony", "I must go and continue the business Fulvia started."), ("Enobarbus", "The business you began here needs you as wellespecially the business with Cleopatra, which only you can attend to."), ("Antony", "Enough of this frivolous talk. Give our officers notice of our intentions. Ill tell the Queen the reason for our quick departure and get her permission to leave. Fulvias death and the pressing concerns related to it are not the only reasons I am eager to go; friends in Rome have also sent many letters advising my return. Sextus Pompeius has challenged Caesar. His fleet controls the sea. Our fickle citizenswho never reward service until that service is overare now giving all the rights and honors won by Pompey the Great to his son, Sextus. Sextus has great honor and power, and his spirit and energy are even greater, all of which makes him the most formidable soldier in the empire. The empire may be in danger if hes not restrained before he reaches his full potential. There are many troubles brewing now that have yet to become full-fledged threats. Like horses hairs dropped in a bucket of water, they come alive like snakes but as yet they bear no poison. This sentence refers to a popular belief of the time. Like horses hairs dropped in a bucket of water, they come alive like snakes but as yet they bear no poison. Relay our intentions to the officers who will be in charge of the move."), ("Enobarbus", "I will."), ("Cleopatra", "Where is he?"), ("Charmian", "I havent seen him recently."), ("Cleopatra", "(to ALEXAS ) Find out where he is, whos with him, and what hes doing. Dont tell him I sent you. If hes sad, tell him Im dancing. If hes happy, say that Ive suddenly taken sick. Hurry, and come back."), ("Charmian", "Madam, I think if you love him so much, you arent using the best way to get him to reciprocate."), ("Cleopatra", "What should I do that Im not doing?"), ("Charmian", "Always give him his way. Never contradict him."), ("Cleopatra", "You advise me like a fool. Thats the way to lose him."), ("Charmian", "Dont push him too far. I wish youd be patient. We come to hate that which controls us. But here comes Antony."), ("Cleopatra", "I am sick and sullen."), ("Antony", "Im sorry to have to say this"), ("Cleopatra", "Help me away from here, dear Charmian! I shall faint. I wont be able to go on this way much longer. Human nature isnt built to withstand this."), ("Antony", "Now, my dearest Queen"), ("Cleopatra", "Please, stand farther away from me."), ("Antony", "Whats the matter?"), ("Cleopatra", "I can see in your eyes theres been some good news. What, does your wife say you can come home? I wish shed never let you come. Dont let her say I kept you. I have no power over you. You belong to her."), ("Antony", "The gods know"), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, never has a queen been so betrayed as I have been. I knew from the first it would be this way."), ("Antony", "Cleopatra"), ("Cleopatra", "How could I have ever thought that you would be faithful and true, even though your vows of love shook the heavens themselvesyou, who were unfaithful to Fulvia? It was wild insanity to believe promises made by the mouth and not the heart. Such false vows are broken as soon as they are spoken."), ("Antony", "Most sweet Queen"), ("Cleopatra", "No, please dont try to excuse your departure. Just say good-bye and go. When you begged to stay, that was the time for words. You didnt want to go then! You saw eternity in my lips and eyes, and happiness in the arch of my eyebrows. Then, all my parts seemed angelic to you. My features are still that beautifulor else you, the greatest soldier in the world, have become the greatest liar by overpraising them."), ("Antony", "What do you mean, lady?"), ("Cleopatra", "I wish I were as big and strong as you. Then youd see the courage that lives in the Queen of Egypt."), ("Antony", "Listen to me, Queen. There is an emergency I must take care of, but my whole heart will remain here with you. My Italy is full of civil war. Sextus Pompeius is sailing toward the port of Rome. When two domestic opponents are equally matchedas we are against Pompeyfactions will form on the smallest of pretexts. When a formerly hated man grows powerful, he suddenly finds himself with many supporters. Pompey, who was once condemned, now wields his fathers power, and all the citizens who have grievances against the government are joining him. Pompeys numbers are steadily growing, and the government is ready to do something desperate. But my personal motivationand that which should move you most to sanction my departureis that Fulvia is dead."), ("Cleopatra", "I may not have outlived the foolishness of my youth, but Im not that childishly nave. Is it possible Fulvia is dead?"), ("Antony", "Shes dead, my Queen. Look at this. Take your royal time and read about the quarrels she encouraged. And saving the best for last, read when and where she died."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, unfaithful lover! You should be filling vials with your tears. Ancient Romans often placed vials of tears inside their friends funerary urns. You should be filling vials with your tears. Seeing how you take Fulvias death, I can see how you would react to mine."), ("Antony", "Stop arguing and listen to my plans. Whether I go ahead with them or not is completely up to you. I swear by the sun that when I leave here, it will be as your faithful servant. I will make either peace or war, whichever you prefer."), ("Cleopatra", "Cut my corset laces, Charmian, so I can breathe. Hurry! No, leave it alone. I waver easily between sickness and health. Just as Antony loves."), ("Antony", "Control yourself, my precious Queen, and concede that my love is true. It has endured many genuine trials."), ("Cleopatra", "Thats what Fulvia told me. I beg you, turn away and cry for her. Then say good-bye to me and tell me those tears were for my benefit. Good. Now perform a scene for me, using your excellent skills of playacting, and pretend that youre being honorable and righteous."), ("Antony", "Youll make me angry. No more of this."), ("Cleopatra", "I know you can do better than that, but itll do for now."), ("Antony", "I swear by my sword"), ("Cleopatra", "Swear by your shield, too! (to CHARMIAN ) Hes getting better, but still its not his best. See, Charmian, how well this mighty Roman portrays anger?"), ("Antony", "Ill leave you, lady."), ("Cleopatra", "Polite sir, let me say one thing. Sir, you and I must part companyno, thats not it. Sir, you and I were loversno, thats not it, either. You already know all that. Theres something Id like tooh, Ive forgotten what I wanted to say. Just as Antony has forgotten me."), ("Antony", "If you werent the queen of immaturity, Id think you were immaturity itself."), ("Cleopatra", "Its difficult to have such immaturity so close to my heart, but bear with me. Even the traits that become me most kill me when you dont approve of them. Your honor is the reason you are leaving. So I beg you not to listen to my foolishness. May the gods be with you. May your sword be victorious and everything you do succeed."), ("Antony", "Lets go. Come with me. Our imminent separation so occupies our thoughts that even though you stay here, you come with me, and even though I leave here, I stay with you."), ("Caesar", "Now youll see, Lepidus, that I dont disdain our noble ally because of a personal whim. Heres the news from Alexandra: Antony fishes, drinks, and celebrates all night. Hes become as frivolous and self-indulgent as PtolemyPtolemy was Pharaoh of Egypt and Cleopatras husband, now dead. (He was also her younger brother.)Ptolemys queen, Cleopatra. He rarely attends to his duties or acknowledges he has partners to be considered. Heres a man who is the epitome of all the vices known to man."), ("Lepidus", "I cant believe there could be enough vice in the world to outshine all the good in him. His faults stand out because they must be compared to all his virtues, like stars that shine brightly against the dark night sky. Theyre more likely to be the result of inherited weakness than independent choice."), ("Caesar", "Youre too forgiving. Lets say, for arguments sake, that its not improper to fool around with Ptolemys wife, or to trade a kingdom for a joke. That its fine to engage in drinking matches with inferiors, or stumble drunkenly through the streets in the middle of the day, or get into fist fights with sweaty servants. Even if we said that this behavior suits himthough only a man with a perfect character could avoid being disgraced by such anticstheres no excuse for the extra work weve had to take on while hes been off amusing himself. If hes been spending his leisure time in lustful pursuits, then hell be punished with venereal diseases, and thats his business. But hes wasting time and resources vital to our cause and endangering both his position and ours. He should be chastised, like any boy who knows whats right but chooses to satisfy his desires regardless."), ("Lepidus", "Heres more news."), ("First messenger", "Weve followed your commands, lord Caesar. You shall have hourly updates regarding the situation at sea. Pompey has a strong navy. All the people who only stayed with you out of fear are gathering at the port to join him, in the opinion hes been treated unfairly."), ("Caesar", "I should have known it. Its been this way ever since the first government was organized. People will transfer their support to a strong figure until he becomes their actual leader. Then they will value their former leader, even though the loss of their support has made him powerless. The common crowd changes like the tide, to and fro, serving whoever is on the rise. Their power is worn away by their fickleness."), ("Second messenger", "Caesar, I have news about Menecrates and Menas, notorious pirates who prowl the sea in a variety of ships. Theyve made many raids upon Italyand the naval patrols go pale at even the thought of resisting them. The young, energetic men are joining Pompey. These pirates can capture a ship as soon as it leaves the harbor, since the simple mention of the name Pompey carries as much power as a fleet of troops in battle."), ("Caesar", "Antony, its time to stop your wild hedonism. When you were defeated at the battle of Modenawhere you killed the consuls, Hirtius and Pansaand then driven away, you had to face hunger and thirst. And even though you were brought up as a gentleman, you patiently tolerated more hardships than savages could withstand. You drank horses urine and water from scum-covered puddles that even animals would refuse. Though you were used to the finest foods, you didnt turn up your nose at the bitterest berries on the thorniest bushes. You even ate bark from trees, as deer do in winter. Going over the Alps, you ate strange meat that some men would rather die than consume. And you went through all thisthe comparison between then and now shames youin such a soldier-like way that you didnt seem to suffer at all."), ("Lepidus", "Its too bad."), ("Caesar", "Lets hope his sense of shame will send him back to Rome quickly. Its time that we brought our armies into the field. Lets call a council of war immediately. Pompey is making the most of our absence."), ("Lepidus", "Tomorrow, Caesar, Ill be able to tell you what land and sea forces I can raise for this war."), ("Caesar", "Ill be getting my own figures together in the meantime. Good-bye."), ("Lepidus", "Good-bye, my lord. If you receive any more news, please share it with me."), ("Caesar", "Dont worry, that goes without saying."), ("Cleopatra", "Charmian!"), ("Charmian", "Madam?"), ("Cleopatra", "Ah, give me some mandragoranarcotic syrupmandragora to drink."), ("Charmian", "Why, madam?"), ("Cleopatra", "So I can sleep away the time while my Antony is gone."), ("Charmian", "You think about him too much."), ("Cleopatra", "Thats treason!"), ("Charmian", "I hope not, Madam."), ("Cleopatra", "Eunuch! Mardian!"), ("Mardian", "What can I do for your highness?"), ("Cleopatra", "I dont want to hear you sing. Im not interested in anything a eunuch can do. Its a good thing for you that, being castrated, you can better concentrate on my needs. Do you have desires?"), ("Mardian", "Yes, dear madam."), ("Cleopatra", "Indeed?"), ("Mardian", "Well, not in deed, madam, since I cant do anything unchaste. But I do have intense passionsand I do think about what Venus did with MarsVenus, goddess of love, and Mars, god of war, were legendary lovers.what Venus did with Mars."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, Charmian, where do you think he is now? Is he standing or sitting? Or is he walking? Or is he on his horse? Oh, how fortunate that horse is to have Antony on him. Do well, horse. Do you know whom it is you carry? A man who carries responsibility for a third of the world on his shoulders. Hes speaking now, or perhaps hes whispering, Wheres my serpent of the Nile? For thats his pet name for me. Im killing myself with this provocative speculation... Are you thinking about me? Even though Ive been darkened by the sun and wrinkled with age? Caesar, with your broad forehead, when you were alive, I was the perfect young consort for a king. And powerful Pompey used to stare at me as if he were frozen in time. Referring to two previous lovers, Julius Caesar and Gneius Pompey (son of Pompey the Great and elder brother of Sextus Pompeius). I was the perfect young consort for a king. And powerful Pompey used to stare at me as if he were frozen in time."), ("Alexas", "Queen of Egypt, greetings!"), ("Cleopatra", "You are nothing like Mark Antony! But since you come from him, youre saturated with his healing spirit. How does it go with my magnificent Mark Antony?"), ("Alexas", "The last thing he did before sending me off, dear Queen, was to kissthe last of many such kissesthis Indian pearl for you. His speech is stored in my heart."), ("Cleopatra", "My ear must pull it out."), ("Alexas", "Good friend, he said, say that the faithful Roman sends an oysters treasure to the great Queen of Egypt, and that he plans to enhance this meager gift by adding new kingdoms to her empire. Tell her that the entire East shall call her Queen. Then he nodded and solemnly mounted an armored warhorse, which neighed so loudly it effectively silenced anything I might have said in reply."), ("Cleopatra", "Was he sad or happy?"), ("Alexas", "He was like that time of year halfway between the extremes of hot and cold: he was neither sad nor happy."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, what an even disposition he has! Observe, observe good Charmian! Thats exactly how he is! Just notice. He wasnt sad, because he knows that his disposition affects others. He wasnt merry, because to be merry would indicate that he had forgotten his love in Egypt. He was somewhere in the middle, between them... Oh, heavenly mixture! Whether you are sad or merry, the intensity of either suits you like no one else... Did you meet my messengers on your way here?"), ("Alexas", "Yes, madam, twenty different messengers. Why did you send so many?"), ("Cleopatra", "Whoever is born on a day I forget to send a message to Antony will die a beggar. Bring ink and paper, Charmian. Welcome, my good Alexas. Charmian, did I ever love Caesar as much as this?"), ("Charmian", "Oh, that splendid Caesar!"), ("Cleopatra", "May you choke on any other sentiments like that! Say, That splendid Antony."), ("Charmian", "The courageous Caesar!"), ("Cleopatra", "By Isis, Ill give you bloody teeth if you ever compare Caesar with Antony, my best man among men."), ("Charmian", "Pardon me, but Im just repeating what you yourself have said."), ("Cleopatra", "That was when I was young and inexperienced and didnt know what passion was. (to everyone) But come. (to CHARMIAN ) Go get me ink and paper. He shall have different messages every day if I have to depopulate Egypt to send them."), ("Pompey", "If the great gods are just, they will help the most honest men."), ("Menas", "You should know, noble Pompey, that although the gods may delay action, that doesnt mean they will necessarily refuse their help."), ("Pompey", "But while we pray and wait for that help, the cause we petition for may be lost."), ("Menas", "Sometimes we dont know whats best for us and ask for things that may harm us. In that case, the wise gods deny our prayers for our own good."), ("Pompey", "Ill do well. The people are on my side, and Im in charge of the sea. My forces are growing, and everything I know tells me its all coming together. Mark Antony is at dinner in Egypt and wont be going outside to make war. Caesar loses supporters wherever he raises money. Lepidus flatters both of them, as they flatter him, but he doesnt love them, and they dont love him."), ("Menas", "Caesar and Lepidus are organizing their military operation. They have a massive army."), ("Pompey", "Where did you hear this? Its not true."), ("Menas", "From Silvius, sir."), ("Pompey", "Hes dreaming. I know theyre in Rome together, hoping for Antony to return. Lecherous Cleopatra, may all the charms of love soften those withered lips! Join your witchcraft with your beauty, and let Antonys lust combine with both. Keep this libertine occupied with endless debauchery. Keep his brain drunk and his appetite unsatisfied, so that sleeping and eating make him drowsy and forgetful of his duties, like the Lethemythical river of the underworld; to drink from it brought forgetfulnessLethe does. Whats the news, Varrius?"), ("Varrius", "This news is absolutely true: Mark Antony is expected to arrive in Rome at any hour now. In the time since he left Egypt, he could have traveled an even longer distance."), ("Pompey", "I would have listened to less important news with greater enthusiasm. Menas, I had no idea this amorous glutton would have put on his helmet for such an insignificant war. His military ability is double that of the other two. We must form a better opinion of ourselves if our uprising can pull the insatiable Antonys attention away from that Egyptian widow."), ("Menas", "I dont expect Caesar and Antony will have a very friendly reunion. Antonys dead wife raised an army against him, as did his brother, though I dont think Antony instigated it."), ("Pompey", "Menas, I dont understand how minor quarrels can be superseded by greater ones. If it werent for the fact that we oppose all three of them together, theyd be fighting each other. They certainly have enough provocation. But its possible the fear of us may mend their petty differences, though how that will work out, we cannot say. It will be as the gods see fit. In any case, our survival depends on putting together the strongest force possible. Lets go, Menas."), ("Lepidus", "Good Enobarbus, you would be doing a very good thing if you advised your captain to speak calmly and quietly."), ("Enobarbus", "I will advise him to speak as he usually does. If Caesar makes him mad, let Antony stand tall and speak as loudly as Mars, the god of war. By Jupiter, if I were Antony, I wouldnt shave my beard today. Id leave it long and dare Caesar to insult me by pulling on it, just so I could fight him."), ("Lepidus", "This is not the time for dwelling on personal grievances."), ("Enobarbus", "Its always appropriate to deal with matters as they arise."), ("Lepidus", "But major issues must come before minor ones."), ("Enobarbus", "Not if the minor ones come up first."), ("Lepidus", "You speak out of passion, but I beg you not to stir things up. Here comes the noble Antony."), ("Enobarbus", "And there comes Caesar."), ("Antony", "(to VENTIDIUS ) If we can come to an agreement here, well move on to Parthia. Listen, Ventidius."), ("Caesar", "(to MAECENAS ) I dont know, Maecenas. Ask Agrippa."), ("Lepidus", "(to CAESAR and ANTONY ) Good friends, the cause that joined us was noble. Dont let some petty quarrel tear us apart. Lets discuss this calmly. When we argue our differences with raised voices, we do more harm than good. So I plead with you to use reasonable words as you discuss these unreasonable deeds, and dont lose your tempers."), ("Antony", "Youre right. If we were in front of our armies, about to fight, I would do this."), ("Caesar", "Welcome to Rome."), ("Antony", "Thank you."), ("Caesar", "Have a seat."), ("Antony", "After you."), ("Caesar", "No, after you."), ("Antony", "I hear youve interpreted some of my actions as being improper, when they werent improper at allor if they were, their impropriety didnt concern you."), ("Caesar", "I should be ridiculed if I were offended so easilyand laughed at even more for speaking of you disrespectfully, when I had no reason to speak of you at all."), ("Antony", "Caesar, what did my stay in Egypt have to do with you?"), ("Caesar", "No more than my staying here in Rome might mean to you in Egypt. But if you conspired against my position while you were there, I might be interested in the reason for your stay in Egypt."), ("Antony", "How do you mean, conspired?"), ("Caesar", "You can judge for yourself what I mean. Your wife and brother led troops against me, claiming to be fighting in your name. They said they were acting for you."), ("Antony", "Youre mistaken. My brother didnt use my name to justify his rebellion. I talked to some reliable participants in that battle. On the contrary, his fight was with both of us. He rejected my authority as much as yours. Since you and I share a common cause, wouldnt his actions against you be hostile to me as well? Ive already sent the proof in my letters. If you want to pick a fight, youll have to find a more substantial excuse."), ("Caesar", "You defend yourself by blaming my judgment, but youre just making up feeble excuses."), ("Antony", "Not true, not true. You know I would never approve a war against my own cause. As for my wife, if only you had such a wife. Its easier to rule a third of the world than a wife like that."), ("Enobarbus", "We should all have wives like that. Then the women could go to war with the men."), ("Antony", "I had no control over her uprisings, Caesar, which arose from her impatienceand were shrewdly undertaken, as well. Im sorry she caused you so much trouble. But you cant blame me for her offenses."), ("Caesar", "I sent you a letter while you were carousing in Alexandria. You put my letters in your pocket without reading them and then mocked my messenger out of the room."), ("Antony", "Sir, he burst into the room without invitation, just after I had come from an important banquet with three kings. I was not myself, as a result of the wine. The next day I explained all this to him, which was as good as begging his pardon. Lets not fight over this fellow. If we must argue, let us remove him from our arguments."), ("Caesar", "Youve broken the terms of our sworn agreement. You will never be able to say the same about me."), ("Lepidus", "Easy, Caesar."), ("Antony", "No, Lepidus, let him say whats on his mind. Now he slanders my honor, which is sacred to me. Go on, Caesar. What part of the agreement did I break?"), ("Caesar", "You agreed to send me troops and weapons when I needed them. You refused me both."), ("Antony", "I overlooked your request, but I did not deny it. Your request came at a time when the poisonous effects of reveling caused me to be unaware of my own actions. I will apologize as much as is appropriate, but my apology will not diminish my great statureor if I am denied that honor, I will withhold my military might. The truth is that to get me out of Egypt, Fulvia provoked riots here. And though I am only indirectly the cause of all this trouble, I ask your pardon to the extent that my honor permits me to lower myself in such a situation."), ("Lepidus", "Spoken like a gentleman."), ("Maecenas", "If its okay with you, you should not press your grievances any further, but realize that the current situation should be enough to reconcile you."), ("Lepidus", "Well put, Maecenas."), ("Enobarbus", "Or you can pretend to settle your differences until this matter with Pompey is finished. You can argue as much as you like when theres nothing else to do."), ("Antony", "You are only a soldier. Be quiet."), ("Enobarbus", "Oh, Id forgotten that no ones supposed to speak the truth."), ("Antony", "Its not appropriate for a soldier to be part of a discussion among noblemen. Dont speak any further."), ("Enobarbus", "As you please. Ill pretend to be a conscious stone, and think without speaking."), ("Caesar", "I agree with what he says, though I dont care for the way he says it. Its not possible for us to be friends anymore. Were too different, in both our dispositions and actions. But if there were something that could join us together again, I would go to the ends of the world to find it."), ("Agrippa", "May I speak, Caesar."), ("Caesar", "What is it, Agrippa?"), ("Agrippa", "You have a beautiful half-sister, Octavia. Great Mark Antony is a widower now."), ("Caesar", "Youd better not make that suggestion, Agrippa. If Cleopatra heard you, you would be well punished for your audacity."), ("Antony", "Its true Im not married, Caesar. Let me hear what Agrippa has to say."), ("Agrippa", "If Antony were to take Octavia as his wife, you two would be bound in eternal friendship. As brothers, your hearts would be tied together in an unbreakable knot. She is beautiful enough for the best of men. Her virtue and grace are unparalleled. With this marriage, all the petty jealousies that now seem huge, and all the great fears that are dangerous in themselves, would disappear. People would become used to speaking the truth rather than gossip. Since she would love both of you, you two would be joined in that love. Excuse my bluntness. This is not a spur-of-the-moment suggestion. I have been considering this for some time, in my duties to both of you."), ("Antony", "What do you say, Caesar?"), ("Caesar", "Id rather hear your reaction to this first."), ("Antony", "If I said to Agrippa, I agree. Make it happen, does Agrippa have the power to make it so?"), ("Caesar", "He has both my power and my influence over Octavia."), ("Antony", "I wouldnt dream of opposing such an obviously promising idea. Lets shake on it. If you go through with this plan, from now on well be brothers, and our love for one another will guide our actions."), ("Caesar", "Heres my hand. I give you a sister whom I love more than a brother ever loved any sister. She will be the bond that joins our kingdoms and our hearts. Well never fight again."), ("Lepidus", "Im happy to say amen to that!"), ("Antony", "I didnt think I would ever fight Pompey. Hes shown me unusual deference lately, and I must repay his favors or risk a reputation for ingratitude. That done, I can turn against him."), ("Lepidus", "There isnt much time. Either we go after Pompey or hell come after us."), ("Antony", "Where is he now?"), ("Caesar", "Near Mt. MisenaHilly port town south of RomeMt. Misena."), ("Antony", "How large is his land army?"), ("Caesar", "Large and increasing. But his navy rules the sea."), ("Antony", "Thats what I hear. I wish wed had this conversation sooner. Lets get down to businessand yet, before we get ready for war, lets take care of that business we just discussed."), ("Caesar", "With pleasure. Ill introduce you to my sister. Follow me."), ("Antony", "Come with us, Lepidus."), ("Lepidus", "Noble Antony, even illness couldnt keep me away."), ("Maecenas", "(to ENOBARBUS ) Welcome back from Egypt, sir."), ("Enobarbus", "Youve become Caesars right hand man, Maecenas! Its good to see you too, Agrippa."), ("Agrippa", "Good Enobarbus!"), ("Maecenas", "We can be happy that things have been resolved so agreeably. And I see you survived your time in Egypt."), ("Enobarbus", "Yes, sir, it was tough. We confused the daytime by sleeping through it, and made the night merry with our drinking."), ("Maecenas", "We heard that once you were served eight wild boars roasted whole for breakfastfor only twelve people! Is that true?"), ("Enobarbus", "That was nothing. There were many even more memorable feasts."), ("Maecenas", "Shes a remarkable lady, if the rumors are to be believed."), ("Enobarbus", "From the first time Antony saw her, sailing on her barge on the Cydnus RiverRiver in southern Turkey. Cydnus River, he was hers."), ("Agrippa", "She made quite an appearance there, or else my informant invented a very flattering description of her."), ("Enobarbus", "Ill tell you. Her barge looked like a golden throne upon the waves, burning bright with the suns reflections. The rear deck was covered with hammered gold. The sails were dyed purple, and they were perfumed so heavily that they made the air seem dizzy with love. The oars were made of silver, and the oarsmen rowed in time to flute music. As the oars beat the water, the waves seemed to speed up as if excited by lust. Cleopatras appearance was indescribable. As she reclined under a canopy woven from gold thread, she was more beautiful than any artists idealized portrait of the goddess Venus. Pretty, Cupid-like boys stood on either side of her, smiling and cooling her with multicolored fans, which seemed to fan the flames in her cheeks even as they cooled them, undoing what they did."), ("Agrippa", "How excellent for Antony!"), ("Enobarbus", "Her ladies-in-waitinglike Nereidessea nymphsNereides, or mermaidstended to Cleopatra as she watched them, and their graceful movements added to the beauty of the scene. It seemed as if a mermaid were steering. The silken sails and ropes swelled in the wind, expertly handled by the ladies soft hands. People on the wharves could smell exotic perfume wafting from the barge as it passed them. All the people came out to see her, and Antony, waiting for her in the marketplace, was left alone. Even the air itself would have gone to look at Cleopatra, if that wouldnt have caused an unnatural vacuum in the atmosphere."), ("Agrippa", "Extraordinary Egyptian!"), ("Enobarbus", "When she landed at the port, Antony sent an invitation for her to come to supper. She replied by saying that it would be better for him to be her guest instead. Our courteous Antony, who has never said no to any woman, after spending plenty of time being groomed by the barber, goes to the feast. For that simple meal, he paid with his hearteven though it was only his eyes that were satisfied."), ("Agrippa", "Royal seductress! She lured Julius Caesar into her bed, he made love to her, and she bore his childTheir son, Caesarionhis child."), ("Enobarbus", "I saw her once hop forty feet down the street. When she stopped she was so out of breath that she was panting. Her beauty made even that weakness seem perfect, and even in her breathlessness she seemed to pour out breath."), ("Maecenas", "Now Antony has to leave her completely."), ("Enobarbus", "Hell never leave her. Age wont wither her, and her charms are so varied that she never grows boring. With other women, the more familiar you grow with them the less appealing they become. Cleopatra, on the other hand, makes you desire her the more you see her. Even her worst faults are charming, and holy priests bless her even when she acts the slut."), ("Maecenas", "If beauty, wisdom, and modesty can settle Antonys restless heart, Octavia will be the best thing that has ever happened to him."), ("Agrippa", "Lets go. Good Enobarbus, consider yourself my guest as long as youre here."), ("Enobarbus", "I humbly thank you."), ("Antony", "(to OCTAVIA ) There will be times when my duties and responsibilities take me away from you."), ("Octavia", "And I will spend our time apart on my knees, praying for you."), ("Antony", "(to CAESAR ) Good night, sir. My Octavia, dont believe everything you hear about me. I havent always lived a conventional life, but the future will be by the book. Good night, dear lady. (to CAESAR ) Good night, sir."), ("Caesar", "Good night."), ("Antony", "Now, sirrahterm of address for a person of lower statussirrah, I hear you wish you were back in Egypt."), ("Fortuneteller", "I wish I had never left Egypt and that you had never come to Egypt."), ("Antony", "Tell me why, if you can."), ("Fortuneteller", "Its a feeling, but nothing I can put into words. But you had better get back to Egypt again."), ("Antony", "Tell me who shall have the better luck, Caesar or me?"), ("Fortuneteller", "Caesar. So youd better not stay with him, Antony. Your guardian angel is noble, courageous, significant, and unmatched when Caesars not around. But when you are with him, your angel is weakened and easily frightened. Thats why there must be space between you."), ("Antony", "Dont speak of this again."), ("Fortuneteller", "To none but you, only to you. You will surely lose any game you play with Caesar. With his natural luck, he will beat you even against the odds. Your light dulls when he is near. I repeat: your angel is afraid to inspire you when youre around him, but when he goes away it becomes brilliant again."), ("Antony", "Leave now. Tell Ventidius I want to speak with him. (to himself) Ill send him to Parthia. Whether hes truly gifted or just lucky, what the Fortuneteller said is true. Even the dice obey Caesar. When we compete in sports, my skill is defeated by his luck. If we pick numbers in a lottery, he wins. His roosters always beat mine at the cockfights. His quails beat mine, even against the odds, when mine have the advantage. Ill return to Egypt. Though Ive made this marriage to keep peace with Caesar, my pleasure remains in the East, with Cleopatra. Come here, Ventidius. You must go to Parthia. Your authorization is ready. Come with me and Ill get it for you."), ("Lepidus", "Dont spend any more time here. Go tell your generals to hurry their preparations."), ("Agrippa", "Sir, well follow as soon as Mark Antony kisses Octavia good-bye."), ("Lepidus", "Good-bye then, until the time I see you dressed in your battle gear, which will suit you both very well."), ("Maecenas", "According to my reckoning, well get to Mt. Misena before you, Lepidus."), ("Lepidus", "Youre taking a shorter route. My plans take me a roundabout way. Youll get there two days before me."), ("Both", "Good luck, sir."), ("Lepidus", "Farewell."), ("Cleopatra", "Play me some music. Music feeds the melancholy moods of us lovers."), ("All", "Musicians, come in!"), ("Cleopatra", "Never mind. Lets play billiards. Play with me, Charmian."), ("Charmian", "My arm is sore. Youll have a better game with Mardian."), ("Cleopatra", "Playing with a eunuch is the same as playing with a woman. Will you play with me, sir?"), ("Mardian", "Ill do my best, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "When a person tries in good faith, even if he fails he cannot be blamed. I dont want to play now. Give me my fishing rod. Well go to the river. With my music playing in the background, Ill lure fish. My hook will go through their slimy jaws and as I pull them up Ill imagine each one is Antony. Ill say, Aha! I caught you!"), ("Charmian", "It was funny when you and Antony bet on who could catch the first fish. You had a diver put a salted fish on his hook. He was so excited as he hurried to pull it in!"), ("Cleopatra", "That time? Oh, there were so many fun times. I would play some trick on him and laugh until he lost his patience. Then, that night, I would laugh with him while we made love until he was patient again. Then by nine in the morning I would have him so drunk I could dress him in my clothes while I wore the sword he used at the famous battle of Philippi. Oh! News from Italy! Cram your good news into my ears. Its been so long since Ive heard from him."), ("Messenger", "Madam, madam"), ("Cleopatra", "Antonys dead! If you say that, you bastard, youll kill your Queen. If you say hes healthy and free, Ill give you money and you may kiss my hand. Kings have trembled to kiss this hand."), ("Messenger", "Let me say first, madam, that he is well."), ("Cleopatra", "Well then, heres more money for you. But you know, sirrah, we customarily say that the dead are well. If thats what you mean, Ill melt this gold and pour it down your throat that speaks these hateful words."), ("Messenger", "Good madam, let me speak."), ("Cleopatra", "All right, I will. But you dont look as if you bring good news. If Antony is free and healthy, you shouldnt wear such a sour face while bringing such good news. If hes not well, you should arrive like a FuryThe Furies were mythological figures who punished those who broke either natural or moral lawsFury with snakes for hair, not in the shape of a normal man."), ("Messenger", "Do you want to hear my news?"), ("Cleopatra", "I have half a mind to hit you before you speak again. But if Antony is alive, healthy, friendly with Caesar, and not Caesars prisoner, Ill shower you with gold and pearls."), ("Messenger", "Madam, hes well."), ("Cleopatra", "Thats well spoken."), ("Messenger", "And hes friendly with Caesar."), ("Cleopatra", "You are an honest man."), ("Messenger", "Caesar and he are better friends than ever."), ("Cleopatra", "Im going to make you a rich man."), ("Messenger", "But yet, madam"), ("Cleopatra", "I dont like the sound of but yet. It reverses all the good that came before it. Damn those words, but yet! But yet is like a jailer about to bring out some horrible criminal. Please, my friend, give me all the news, both good and bad, at the same time. You say hes friendly with Caesar, healthy, and free."), ("Messenger", "I didnt say free, madam. No, I didnt say that. Hes bound to Octavia."), ("Cleopatra", "For what favor?"), ("Messenger", "For the favor of sleeping in her bed."), ("Cleopatra", "Im sick, Charmian."), ("Messenger", "Hes married to Octavia, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "May you die of the worst disease!"), ("Messenger", "Good madam, be patient."), ("Cleopatra", "What did you say to me? Get out, you horrible bastard, or Ill gouge out your eyes. Ill scalp you. Ill have you whipped with wire and soaked in brine like a pickle, making your pain linger."), ("Messenger", "Gracious madam, I only brought the news. I didnt make the match."), ("Cleopatra", "If you say it isnt true, Ill give you a province and make you rich. The blows I gave you already will make up for your upsetting me. And on top of that Ill give you whatever you ask for."), ("Messenger", "Hes married, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "Rogue, youve lived too long!"), ("Messenger", "No way, then, Ill run. Whats the matter with you, madam? I havent done anything to you."), ("Charmian", "Good madam, restrain yourself. The man hasnt done anything wrong."), ("Cleopatra", "Even innocents cannot always escape disaster. May Egypt drown in the Nile and all good creatures turn into poisonous snakes. Call that servant back. Even though Im mad, I wont bite him. Call him!"), ("Charmian", "Hes afraid to come in."), ("Cleopatra", "I wont hurt him. My hands are tainted if they hit an inferior, especially since I myself am the cause of my own distress. Come here, sir. It may be honest, but its never wise to bring bad news. You can give good news in many ways, but let bad news interpret itself as you tell it."), ("Messenger", "Ive only done my duty."), ("Cleopatra", "Is he married? I cant hate you any more than I already do if you repeat that he is."), ("Messenger", "Hes married, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "May the gods destroy you! Do you maintain the same story?"), ("Messenger", "Do you want me to lie, madam?"), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, I wish you had lied, even if it meant half my kingdom would be submerged and filled with snakes. Go, get out! Even if you were as handsome as Narcissusmythical boy who was so beautiful that he drowned himself while trying to embrace his own reflectionNarcissus, your face would be ugly to me. Is he really married?"), ("Messenger", "I beg your highness pardon."), ("Cleopatra", "Is he really married?"), ("Messenger", "Please dont be offended that I dont want to offend you any more. Its not fair to punish me for something you make me do. Hes married to Octavia."), ("Cleopatra", "Its too bad that Antonys fault should make you look like a jerk. You didnt have anything to do with it. Go away. The merchandise you bring from Rome is too expensive for me. Let it stay in your inventory until it bankrupts you."), ("Charmian", "Be patient, your highness."), ("Cleopatra", "When I have praised Antony, Ive disparaged Caesar."), ("Charmian", "Many times, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "Im being repaid for that now. Help me out of here. I feel faint. Oh, Iras, Charmian! It doesnt matter. Good Alexas, go ask that fellow to describe Octavia. How old is she? What kind of disposition does she have? Dont let him leave out the color of her hair. Bring me his answers quickly. Let Antony be purged from my life foreverbut no, dont let him, Charmian. Even though half of him is like a GorgonThe Gorgons were mythical monsters whose gaze turned humans to stoneGorgon, the other half is like Mars. (to MARDIAN ) Ask Alexas to also ask him how tall she is. Feel sorry for me, Charmian, but dont talk to me. Help me get to my bedroom."), ("Pompey", "I have your hostages and you have mine. Lets talk before we fight. In order to conduct negotiations in safety, warring sides exchanged important persons and held the hostages until negotiations were complete. I have your hostages and you have mine. Lets talk before we fight."), ("Caesar", "Its proper that we speak first, which is why we sent our proposals ahead of us for your consideration. If youve had time to think over these points, let us know whether they will relieve your frustration. If yes, then a lot of brave young men can return to Sicily who would otherwise die here."), ("Pompey", "I address the three of you, the sole rulers of this world and the main arbiters of the gods will. I dont know why my fathers death shouldnt be avenged, since he has a son and friends to do it. You avenged Julius Caesars death at Philippi, where his ghost haunted his killer, Brutus. Why did Cassius conspire against Caesar? And why did the honorable, well-intentioned Brutus and the others, men devoted to the ideal of freedom, assassinate Caesar? They didnt want one man to be king in Rome. And thats why Ive built my navy, which is so huge that the weight of the ships makes the sea foam with anger. I will punish Rome for her ingratitude toward my noble father."), ("Caesar", "Take your time."), ("Antony", "Pompey, you cannot frighten us with your navy. Well meet you at sea. You know that on land our army is far greater than yours."), ("Pompey", "Yes, on land you do outnumber me. Even more since you annexed my fathers house and lands. But since, like the cuckooCuckoo birds lay their eggs in other birds nests.like the cuckoo, you dont build anything for yourself, live in those lands as long as you can."), ("Lepidus", "To get back to the matter at hand, what do you think of our proposal?"), ("Caesar", "Thats the point."), ("Antony", "Dont let us talk you into anything, but consider carefully the value of our offers."), ("Caesar", "And consider the possible consequences of fighting against us, in the hopes of gaining a greater fortune."), ("Pompey", "You have offered me the lands of Sicily and Sardinia. In return, I must clear the sea of pirates and send tributes of wheat to Rome. If I agree to this, we may leave unharmed, with our shields undented."), ("Caesar, antony, and lepidus", "Thats our offer."), ("Pompey", "You should know that when I came here I was prepared to accept your offer. But Mark Antony made me somewhat angry. (to ANTONY ) Though it would be nobler to for me not to speak of this good act myself, you should know that when Caesar and your brother were fighting, your mother came to Sicily for refuge. I welcomed her gladly."), ("Antony", "(to POMPEY ) I heard what you did for her, Pompey, and want to give you the many thanks I owe you."), ("Pompey", "Let me shake your hand. I didnt think I would see you here."), ("Antony", "The East is very seductive. I have you to thank for my trip here; I wouldnt have left Egypt otherwise, and I have benefited from it."), ("Caesar", "(to POMPEY ) Youve changed since the last time I saw you."), ("Pompey", "Well, I cannot tell how my difficult life has weathered my face, but I will never let those difficulties subdue my courage."), ("Lepidus", "Its good we had this meeting."), ("Pompey", "I hope it works out for the best, Lepidus. So we are in agreement. Please have the contract written up so we can all sign it."), ("Caesar", "Thats the next thing on the agenda."), ("Pompey", "Well have celebration feasts for each other before we go our separate ways. Lets draw lots to see who will host the first one."), ("Antony", "Ill give the first one, Pompey."), ("Pompey", "No, Antony. Pick one of these lots. Whether your banquet is first or last, your Egyptian cooking will make it the best. I heard that Julius Caesar got fat from all the feasting there."), ("Antony", "Youve heard a lot."), ("Pompey", "I mean well, sir."), ("Antony", "Im sure you do."), ("Pompey", "Ive heard a lot more. I heard that Apollodorus carried"), ("Enobarbus", "(interrupting POMPEY ) Thats enough of that. Yes, its true."), ("Pompey", "What did he carry, please?"), ("Enobarbus", "A certain queen to Caesar, rolled up in a mattressAccording to Plutarch, this is how Cleopatra managed to secretly tryst with Julius Caesar.rolled up in a mattress."), ("Pompey", "Now I know who you are. How are you, soldier?"), ("Enobarbus", "Im well, and probably will be for a while, as I hear that four feasts are being prepared."), ("Pompey", "Let me shake your hand. Ive never been your enemy. Ive seen you fight and envied your skill."), ("Enobarbus", "Sir, I wouldnt say I was your friend, but Ive praised you when you deserved ten times more praise than I gave."), ("Pompey", "Enjoy your frankness; it suits you. I invite you all aboard my ship. After you, my lords?"), ("Caesar, antony, and lepidus", "Show us the way, sir."), ("Pompey", "Come with me."), ("Menas", "(to himself) Your father would never have agreed to this treaty, Pompey. (to ENOBARBUS ) You and I have met, sir."), ("Enobarbus", "I think it was at sea."), ("Menas", "That it was, sir."), ("Enobarbus", "Youve done well at sea."), ("Menas", "And youve done well on land."), ("Enobarbus", "Ill flatter anyone who flatters methough what Ive accomplished on land cannot be denied."), ("Menas", "Neither can my accomplishments at sea."), ("Enobarbus", "Yes, for your own safety, you should deny one thing: you have been a great thief at sea."), ("Menas", "As you were on land."), ("Enobarbus", "Thats the one part of my service on land I do deny. But lets shake hands, Menas. If our eyes were policemen, they might capture two thieves at once while were embracing."), ("Menas", "Mens faces are truthful, whatever their hands do."), ("Enobarbus", "But no beautiful woman has an honest face."), ("Menas", "Thats no lie. They steal hearts."), ("Enobarbus", "We came here to fight against you."), ("Menas", "For my part, Im sorry this battle turned into a drinking match. Today Pompey laughs away his fortune."), ("Enobarbus", "If thats true, he wont get it back by crying."), ("Menas", "Thats the truth, sir. We didnt expect Mark Antony to be here. Is he married to Cleopatra?"), ("Enobarbus", "Caesars sister is named Octavia."), ("Menas", "Thats true, sir. She was previously Caius Marcellus wife."), ("Enobarbus", "But she is now Mark Antonys wife."), ("Menas", "Excuse me, sir?"), ("Enobarbus", "Its true."), ("Menas", "Then Caesar and he will always be united."), ("Enobarbus", "If I were to make a prediction regarding this union, I wouldnt say that."), ("Menas", "I think the marriage was made more for political reasons than for love."), ("Enobarbus", "I think so too. But youll see that the very thing that joins them will be the thing that separates them. Octavia has a pious, chaste, meek disposition."), ("Menas", "Doesnt everyone want a wife like that?"), ("Enobarbus", "Not someone who doesnt share that disposition, meaning Mark Antony. Hell go back to his Egyptian dish. Then Octavias complaints will rouse Caesar, and as I said before, the thing that brought them together will part them. Antony will go where his passion is. He only married out of political necessity."), ("Menas", "Then thats the way it may turn out. Come on, sir, will you come aboard? I want to drink your health."), ("Enobarbus", "Ill join you, sir. We did a lot of drinking in Egypt."), ("Menas", "Lets go."), ("First servant", "Heres where theyll end up, on the floor. Some of them are leaning already. It wont take much for them to fall over."), ("Second servant", "Lepidus is red in the face."), ("First servant", "They made him drink the leftover wine usually given to the poor."), ("Second servant", "Their various personalities grate on one another. Lepidus cries, No more arguing! and then when they agree he resigns himself to drink."), ("First servant", "Which goes on to impede his judgment."), ("Second servant", "Thats what happens when you partner with great men but lack their power. Id rather carry a reed that obviously cant protect me than a sword I cannot lift."), ("First servant", "To be so unimportant in the company of important men is like having a face without any eyes."), ("Antony", "This is how they do it, sir: they measure the depth of the Nile, according to certain marks made on the walls of the Pyramid. They know by those measurements if there will be famine or plenty. The higher the Nile flows, the better the harvest. As the river ebbs, the farmer scatters his seeds on the remaining silt. The harvest comes shortly after that."), ("Lepidus", "Do you have unusual snakes there?"), ("Antony", "Yes, Lepidus."), ("Lepidus", "The Egyptian snake is born when the sun shines on the Nile mud, just like the crocodile."), ("Antony", "Yes, Lepidus."), ("Pompey", "Lets have a seat and some wine. A toast to Lepidus!"), ("Lepidus", "I dont feel so well, but I wont stop."), ("Enobarbus", "Not until you pass out. Im afraid youll keep going until then."), ("Lepidus", "No, I certainly wont stop. Ive heard that the pyramids build by the Ptolemies are splendid. Without doubt Ive heard that."), ("Menas", "(aside to POMPEY ) Pompey, could I have a word with you?"), ("Pompey", "(aside to MENAS ) Whisper it in my ear. What is it?"), ("Menas", "(whispers in POMPEY s ear) Please, captain, leave the feast and let me speak with you privately."), ("Pompey", "(aside to MENAS ) Leave me alone awhile. Wheres the wine for Lepidus?"), ("Lepidus", "What does a crocodile look like?"), ("Antony", "Sir, its shaped like itself and is as wide as it has width. It is only as high as it is and moves with its own legs. It lives on what nourishes it, and when the four elementsfire, air, earth, and water, thought to be the building blocks of all lifethe four elements leave it, its soul moves into another body."), ("Lepidus", "What color is it?"), ("Antony", "Its own color."), ("Lepidus", "Its a strange snake."), ("Antony", "It is that. And its tears are wet."), ("Caesar", "(aside to ANTONY ) Will that description satisfy him?"), ("Antony", "(aside to CAESAR ) That last toast Pompey gave him will take care of him, unless hes a raging glutton."), ("Pompey", "(aside to MENAS ) Go to hell, sir. Are you still here? Go away! Do what I tell you. Wheres the wine I ordered?"), ("Menas", "(aside to POMPEY ) If any service Ive done you deserves a favor, get up from your stool and speak with me."), ("Pompey", "(aside to MENAS ) I think youre crazy! What is it?"), ("Menas", "Ive always had great respect for your destiny."), ("Pompey", "Youve served me faithfully. What else can I say? (to the others) Be happy, lords!"), ("Antony", "Stay away from the quicksand of drink, Lepidus: youre sinking."), ("Menas", "(to POMPEY ) Would you like to be king of the entire world?"), ("Pompey", "What are you saying?"), ("Menas", "Would you like to be king of the entire world? Now Ive said it twice."), ("Pompey", "How could that happen?"), ("Menas", "Just consider it. Though I seem poor, I am the man who will give you the world."), ("Pompey", "Are you drunk?"), ("Menas", "No, Pompey, I havent had anything to drink. You can be the most powerful man on earth if you dare use your power. Both land and sea are yours if you will take them."), ("Pompey", "Tell me how."), ("Menas", "The three who share the known world are aboard your boat. Let me cut the anchor cable. When we are away from land, cut their throats. Everything that belongs to them is yours."), ("Pompey", "Oh, you should have done it without telling me! For me to do such a thing would be dishonorable. For you to do it would be good service. You should know that to me, profit isnt more important than honor, but the other way around. Regret that your mouth betrayed your actions. If you had acted without my knowledge, I would have approved your action later. But now I must condemn it. Give it up and go drink."), ("Menas", "(to himself) For this, Ill never be faithful to your declining fortunes again. A person who wants something but wont take it when it materializes wont get the opportunity again."), ("Pompey", "This toast is for Lepidus!"), ("Antony", "(to a servant) Help Lepidus ashore... Ill accept it for him, Pompey."), ("Enobarbus", "Heres to you, Menas."), ("Menas", "I accept with thanks, Enobarbus."), ("Pompey", "Fill the cups until they run over."), ("Enobarbus", "There goes a strong fellow, Menas."), ("Menas", "Why do you say that?"), ("Enobarbus", "He carries a third of the world. Cant you see that?"), ("Menas", "Then a third of the world is drunk. I wish it were all drunk. Then everything would go more smoothly."), ("Enobarbus", "Drink up. Liven up the party."), ("Menas", "All right, then."), ("Pompey", "This hasnt reached the level of an Egyptian feast yet."), ("Antony", "Its getting there. Clink your cups together in a toast! Heres to Caesar."), ("Caesar", "I could do without another toast. Its unnatural. I keep washing my brain with alcohol, and it keeps getting fouler and more muddled."), ("Antony", "Live in the moment."), ("Caesar", "Id prefer to seize the day. But I would rather abstain from everything for four days than drink so much in one."), ("Enobarbus", "(to ANTONY ) Ha! Shall we dance Egyptian bacchanalsbawdy dances honoring Bacchus, Roman god of winebacchanals, my noble emperor, and celebrate our wine?"), ("Pompey", "Lets have one, good soldier."), ("Antony", "Come, lets join our hands until the overpowering wine makes us soft and forgetful."), ("Enobarbus", "Everyone join hands. Attack our ears with loud music, and Ill position you for the dance. Then the boy will sing, and every man will sing the chorus at the top of his voice."), ("Boy", "(singing) Come, you king of the vine, plump Bacchus, with your pink eyes. Our troubles are drowned in your vats. Well crown ourselves with wreathes of grapes."), ("All", "(singing) Give us cups until the world spins! Give us cups until the world spins!"), ("Caesar", "How can you top that? Good night, Pompey. (to ANTONY ) Dear brother-in-law, lets leave together. This frivolity isnt appropriate to the serious purpose that brought us here. Noble lords, lets say good night. Weve all gotten red in the face. Even the strong Enobarbus isnt immune to the effects of wine, and Im tongue-tied myself. This wild party has almost turned us all into clowns. What more need I say? Good night. Good Antony, shake my hand."), ("Pompey", "Well have a rematch at your feast on shore."), ("Antony", "Yes, we will. Lets shake on it."), ("Pompey", "Oh, Antony, even if youve taken my fathers house, what is that to me? Were friends! Come, this way to the rowboat."), ("Enobarbus", "Be careful not to fall in. Menas, Im not going back on shore."), ("Menas", "No, come to my cabin. Well have the musicians play drums, trumpets, flutes. What do you say? Well make NeptuneRoman god of the seaNeptune hear us bid a loud good night to these great men. Play and be damned. Play loud!"), ("Enobarbus", "Hooray, I say. Theres my hat!"), ("Menas", "Hooray! Come on, noble captain."), ("Ventidius", "Now Ive paid you back, Parthia, and gotten revenge for Marcus Crassus death. Carry King OrodesOrodes was King of Parthia and father of Pacorus. He assassinated Marcus Crassus, a member of the first Roman triumvirate. King Orodes son at the front of our army, so all the Parthians will knowOrodes, Pacorus pays for Marcus Crassus!"), ("Silius", "Noble Ventidius, while your sword is still warm with the blood of slain Parthians, why not finish the job? The Parthians retreat. Go after them. Chase them down if you have to track them through Media, MesopotamiaMedia and Mesopotamia were countries bordering ParthiaMedia, Mesopotamia, or any other places they may go to hide. Then our great general, Antony, will commend you."), ("Ventidius", "Oh, Silius, Silius, Ive done enough. A subordinate may exceed his authority. You must understand, Silius, that its better to leave something undone than achieve too much fame in your superiors absence. Caesar and Antony have always achieved more by delegating authority to their officers than by leading their troops in person. Sossius, an officer that held the same position in Syria as I do here, achieved great distinction very quickly but lost Antonys support as a result. A man who achieves more in war than his captain does becomes his captains rival. Ambition is a good quality in a soldier, but it proves detrimental rather than beneficial when used to surpass his superiors. I could do more to help Antony, but to do so would insult him. And by insulting him, I would lose credit for the good I have done him already."), ("Silius", "A soldier is just a tool, like his sword, unless he has your qualities, Ventidius. Are you going to write Antony about this?"), ("Ventidius", "Ill modestly tell him what I have done in his namethats the magical wording these days. Ill write how, under his flag and with his well-paid troops, we have beaten the formerly unvanquished Parthia."), ("Silius", "Wheres Antony now?"), ("Ventidius", "He plans to go to Athens. We must arrive there before him, as quickly as our baggage train will allow us. (to the soldiers) Get a move on!"), ("Agrippa", "Did the brothers-in-law leave?"), ("Enobarbus", "They finished their business with Pompey, and Pompey has left. Now the three triumvirs are putting their official seals on the treaty. Octavia weeps at the thought of leaving Rome. Caesar is in a sober mood. And Menas reports that Lepidus has been hungover since Pompeys party."), ("Agrippa", "That Lepidus is an elegant man. A pun: lepidus means elegant in Latin. That Lepidus is an elegant man."), ("Enobarbus", "Hes a stylish man. And how he loves Caesar!"), ("Agrippa", "Yes, but how he adores Mark Antony!"), ("Enobarbus", "Caesar? Hes a god of a man. Enobarbus and Agrippa mock Lepidus excessive flattery. Hes a god of a man."), ("Agrippa", "Then whats Antony? A god of a god?"), ("Enobarbus", "Are you talking about Caesar? Hes without equal!"), ("Agrippa", "Oh, Antony! Oh, you phoenixmythical bird, symbol of immortalityphoenix!"), ("Enobarbus", "If you want to praise Caesar, just say his namethats all the praise thats necessary."), ("Agrippa", "He certainly flattered them both with extravagant compliments."), ("Enobarbus", "He loves Caesar best, but he also loves Antony. Oh! No one can describe or fathom Lepidus love for Antony! Hearts cannot think it, tongues cannot speak it, meas-urements cannot calculate it, scribes cannot write it, bards cannot sing it, and poets cannot make verses about it. But when it comes to Caesar, Lepidus love approaches the awestruck wonder of a worshipper."), ("Agrippa", "He loves them both."), ("Enobarbus", "They are his dung, and he their beetle. So, theres the signal to ride. Good-bye, noble Agrippa."), ("Agrippa", "Good luck, worthy soldier, and good-bye."), ("Antony", "You cant go any further with us, sir."), ("Caesar", "You take an important part of myself with you. Treat it well.... Sister, be the kind of wife I hope you will be, and that this great contract rests upon your being... Gracious Antony, dont let my sister, this epitome of virtue that connects us, become the reason we separate. If you and I dont value her equally, it would be better for us to work out our differences without her."), ("Antony", "Dont insult me with your distrust."), ("Caesar", "I mean what I say."), ("Antony", "You wont find any cause for anxiety, even if you look for one. So, may the gods protect you and change the hearts of the Romans so that they turn and give you their support. Well leave you here."), ("Caesar", "Good-bye, my dearest sister, good-bye. I hope you have good weather to set your mind at ease. Farewell."), ("Octavia", "My noble brother!"), ("Antony", "Her eyes are like April: full of showers. But theyll flower into love. (to OCTAVIA ) Be cheerful."), ("Octavia", "(to CAESAR ) Take care of my former husbands property, and"), ("Caesar", "What is it, Octavia?"), ("Octavia", "Ill tell you privately."), ("Antony", "She wont say what shes feeling, and she cant understand her feelings. Shes balanced uneasily, like a feather on the swell of a great waveshe wont move, even though her situation is about to change."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside to AGRIPPA ) Do you think Caesar will cry?"), ("Agrippa", "(aside to ENOBARBUS ) He does look like it."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside to AGRIPPA ) If he were a horse, watery eyes would lower his value. Men arent supposed to cry, either."), ("Agrippa", "(aside to ENOBARBUS ) Why, Enobarbus, when Antony saw that Julius Caesar was dead, he cried terribly. And he wept when he found that Brutus had been killed at Philippi."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside to AGRIPPA ) He certainly did have rheumy eyes that year. Whenever he had to kill, he criedits true!until I cried too."), ("Caesar", "(returning with OCTAVIA ) Dont worry, sweet Octavia, Ill always write to you, and Ill think about you all the time."), ("Antony", "Come here, sir. Ill wrestle with you out of love. See, now I have you. And thus I let you go and give you to the gods."), ("Caesar", "Good-bye. Be happy."), ("Lepidus", "(to ANTONY ) May every star light your path."), ("Caesar", "Farewell, farewell."), ("Antony", "Farewell."), ("Cleopatra", "Where is that messenger?"), ("Alexas", "Hes afraid to come in."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, come on. Come here, sir."), ("Alexas", "Gracious Queen, even Herod of Judea wouldnt dare look at you unless you were in a good mood."), ("Cleopatra", "Ill have Herods head chopped off! But now that Antonys gone, who will do it for me? (to MESSENGER ) Come closer."), ("Messenger", "Most formidable Queen!"), ("Cleopatra", "Did you see Octavia?"), ("Messenger", "Yes, revered Queen."), ("Cleopatra", "Where?"), ("Messenger", "In Rome, Madam. I saw her face as she walked with her brother and Mark Antony."), ("Cleopatra", "Is she as tall as I am?"), ("Messenger", "She is not, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "Did you hear her speak? Is her voice pitched high or low?"), ("Messenger", "Madam, I heard her speak. She has a low-pitched voice."), ("Cleopatra", "Thats not in her favor. He cant like her very long."), ("Charmian", "Like her? Oh, Isis, thats impossible."), ("Cleopatra", "Youre right, Charmian. Shes both dull-spoken and dwarfishly little. Did she carry herself with majesty? Compare her to any memory you might have of royalty."), ("Messenger", "She creeps along. Moving or standing still, her bearing is about the same. She has a body, not a life. Shes more like a statue than a living, breathing human being."), ("Cleopatra", "Is this true?"), ("Messenger", "If not, then I have no powers of observation."), ("Charmian", "There arent three people in all of Egypt who could do better."), ("Cleopatra", "Hes very observant. I can tell. She doesnt have anything going for her so far. This messenger is wise."), ("Charmian", "Very wise."), ("Cleopatra", "(to MESSENGER ) How old do you think she is?"), ("Messenger", "She was a widow previously, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "A widow? Do you hear that, Charmian?"), ("Messenger", "And I think shes at least thirty."), ("Cleopatra", "Do you remember her face? Was it long or round?"), ("Messenger", "Round enough to be unattractive."), ("Cleopatra", "Usually that means a person is foolish. What color is her hair?"), ("Messenger", "Brown, madam, and she wouldnt want her forehead to be any lower."), ("Cleopatra", "Heres gold for you. You mustnt hold my earlier outburst against me. Ill hire you again to go back to Rome. I find that youre very good at this kind of work. Go, prepare to travel. My letters are ready to go."), ("Charmian", "Hes an admirable man."), ("Cleopatra", "He certainly is. Im very sorry I was so hard on him. Why, from what he says, Octavia isnt worth getting upset over."), ("Charmian", "Not a bit, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "This mans been around royalty. He should recognize it when he sees it."), ("Charmian", "Been around royalty! Isis forbid it were otherwise, since hes been in your service so long."), ("Cleopatra", "I want to ask him one more thing, Charmian. But its not important. Bring him to my writing room. Everything may still be all right."), ("Charmian", "I assure you it is, madam."), ("Antony", "No, no, Octavia, its not only that. That would be excusablethat and a thousand other offenses like it. But Caesar has gone and waged a new war against Pompey. He made his will and read it in a public assembly. Roman politicians could gain popularity among the common people by writing a will that included bequests in their favor, such as sums of money, parkland, or orchards dedicated to their use. He made his will and read it in a public assembly. He hardly refers to me at all, though official decisions are supposed to be made jointly. When he cant avoid mentioning my services to the state, he minimizes them as much as possible. When situations arise when it would be natural to emphasize my due credit, he either ignores them or only pays me lip service."), ("Octavia", "Oh, dear husband, dont believe everything you hearor if you must believe it, dont let it all make you angry. No lady could be more miserable than I if you two disagree. Ill be left in the middle, praying for both sides. The good gods will laugh at me when on the one hand I pray for my husband and on the other for my brother. Let my husband win! Let my brother win! One prayer cancels out the other. Theres no middle ground between these two extremes."), ("Antony", "Gentle Octavia, support the one that supports you. If Im defeated, I lose my reputation. If I lose my reputation, I lose myself. It would be better for you to have no husband than a husband who lacks honor. However, as you requested, you may go and try to negotiate with your brother. In the meantime, Ill raise an army that will surpass his. Go as soon as possible, so your prayers may be answered the sooner."), ("Octavia", "Thank you, my lord. May the god of power make me, the weakest of the weak, your mediator. A war between you two would split the very world, and the bodies of your slaughtered soldiers would have to fill the chasm between."), ("Antony", "When you find out who started this disagreement, turn your anger upon them. Our faults cant be so alike that you would judge us similarly. Order supplies for your trip and choose your traveling companions. Spend as much as you like."), ("Enobarbus", "How goes it, friend Eros?"), ("Eros", "Some startling news has just arrived, sir."), ("Enobarbus", "What news, man?"), ("Eros", "Caesar and Lepidus declared war against Pompey."), ("Enobarbus", "Thats old news. Whos winning?"), ("Eros", "Caesar used Lepidus in the war, but as soon as it was over, Lepidus was expelled from the triumvirate. He wasnt allowed any of the glory of the victory, and he was accused of treasonous correspondence with Pompey. On the basis of Caesars accusation alone, Lepidus was imprisoned. So the weak third of the triumvirate is imprisoned until death frees him."), ("Enobarbus", "So now the world will only be devoured by two sets of jawsCaesars and Antonys. And even if you throw everything you possess to the two of them, theyll battle each other to the death to have it all. Wheres Antony?"), ("Eros", "Hes walking in the garden, like this (imitating anger). And he kicks the leaves on the path, exclaiming, Lepidus, you fool! Then he threatens to kill the officer who murdered Pompey. Pompey was killed by one of Antonys officers, Titius, during his campaign for Antonys territories. Some historians believe that Titius acted on Antonys specific order. Then he threatens to kill the officer who murdered Pompey."), ("Enobarbus", "Antonys grand navy is prepared."), ("Eros", "To sail to Italy and Caesar. Another thing, Domitius: Antony wants to see you now. I should have waited to tell you my news."), ("Enobarbus", "It wont be that important. But never mind. Take me to Antony."), ("Eros", "Come with me, sir."), ("Caesar", "In Alexandria he condemned Rome, and thats not all. This is what happened: he and Cleopatra sat on chairs of gold on a silver-covered stage in the marketplace. Caesarionwhom they call my fathers sonJulius Caesar was Octavius Caesars adopted father (biologically, he was his uncle). Caesarionwhom they call my fathers sonand all their illegitimate children sat at their feet. Antony confirmed her possession of Egypt and made her absolute Queen of lower Syria, Cyprus, and Lydia."), ("Maecenas", "He did this in public?"), ("Caesar", "In the public arena, where they perform sporting events. He proclaimed his sons to be kings of kings. He gave Media, Parthia, and Armenia to Alexander. He gave Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia to Ptolemy. Cleopatra was dressed like the goddess Isis. They say she often attended her public functions like that."), ("Maecenas", "Lets send this news to Rome."), ("Agrippa", "The Roman people are fed up with his arrogance already. Theyll abandon him completely when they hear this."), ("Caesar", "The people have heard it already, and theyve been told of his accusations."), ("Agrippa", "Who does he accuse?"), ("Caesar", "He accuses me of withholding his share of Sextus Pompeius possessions, which we seized in Sicily. Then he says I didnt return some ships he loaned me. Finally, he criticizes the deposing of Lepidus, and then goes on to accuse me of keeping all of Lepidus property for myself."), ("Agrippa", "Sir, these accusations should be answered."), ("Caesar", "It has been done already, and the messenger is on his way. I answered that Lepidus had become too brutal and abused his position. For this he deserved to be deposed. As for what I seized in the wars, I granted that Antony should have a share. But I also demanded my share of his acquisitions in Armenia and the other conquered kingdoms."), ("Maecenas", "Hell never agree to that."), ("Caesar", "Then we wont agree to his demands."), ("Octavia", "Greetings, Caesar, my lord! Greetings, dearest Caesar!"), ("Caesar", "Oh, to think youve been rejected!"), ("Octavia", "Youve never thought of me like that, and you have no reason to."), ("Caesar", "Then why did you travel so quietly? You didnt arrive like Caesars sister. Antonys wife should have an army to escort her, with neighing horses to announce her arrival long before she appears. The trees along the road should have been filled with eager spectators. Crowds should have been faint with excitement waiting to see you. The dust from your attending troops should have risen to heaven. But youve arrived like a common maid bringing goods to a Roman market. Youve kept me from displaying my loveand when love is not shown, its often not felt. I would have met you by sea and again by land. At each stage of your trip there would have been a more spectacular greeting."), ("Octavia", "My good lord, I wasnt forced to travel like this. It was my choice. Mark Antony heard that you were preparing to wage war on him. When he gave me this news, I begged him to let me visit you."), ("Caesar", "Which he quickly allowed, given that youre an obstacle to his lust."), ("Octavia", "Dont say that, my lord."), ("Caesar", "Ive kept track of him, and reports of his affairs arrive on every ship. Where do you think he is now?"), ("Octavia", "Hes in Athens, my lord."), ("Caesar", "No, hes not. Youve been deceived. Cleopatra summoned him. Hes given his empire to a whore, and now theyre gathering kings to wage a war. Hes recruited Bocchus, the King of Libya; Archelaus of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, King of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas; King Manchus of Arabia; the King of Pont; Herod, of Judea; Mithridates, King of Comagen; Polemon and Amyntas, the kings of Mede and Lycaonia, and many more."), ("Octavia", "Oh, Im heartbroken. Im divided between two friends who are determined to kill each other."), ("Caesar", "Youre welcome here. I didnt write about breaking the alliance with Antony until I saw you were being misled and realized how dangerous it would be to keep postponing preparations. Cheer yourself. Dont be troubled by the present situation, the obligations of which must ruin your happiness. Dont worry about things that have already been decided by fate. Welcome home to Rome. Nothing is more precious to me than you. You have been unbelievably abused, and now the gods make us the dispensers of justice. Be comforted. You will always be welcome to me."), ("Agrippa", "Welcome, lady."), ("Maecenas", "Welcome, dear madam. Every heart in Rome loves and pities you. Only the adulterous and abominable Antony abandons you, giving his power to a whore who turns that power against us."), ("Octavia", "(to CAESAR ) Is that true, sir?"), ("Caesar", "Its undeniable. You are welcome here, sister. I beg you to continue to be patient. My dearest sister!"), ("Cleopatra", "Ill be straight with you. Do not doubt it."), ("Enobarbus", "But why, why, why?"), ("Cleopatra", "You opposed my taking part in the war. You said it wasnt proper."), ("Enobarbus", "Well, is it? Is it?"), ("Cleopatra", "Isnt this war against me? Why shouldnt I be there in person?"), ("Enobarbus", "Well, I could answer that if we went to war on male and female horses alikethe male horses would be totally distracted and useless. The mares would be ridden by their riders and the male horses."), ("Cleopatra", "What do you mean?"), ("Enobarbus", "Antony will necessarily be distracted by your presence. You will affect his heart and his head. Youll take up time he cant afford to lose. Hes already criticized for frivolous behavior. In Rome they say that your eunuch Photinus and your maids run the war."), ("Cleopatra", "Let Rome fall! May the tongues of our critics rot! I have responsibilities in this war, and as the absolute ruler of my kingdom I will carry out my duties as if I were a man. Dont argue against it. I wont stay behind."), ("Enobarbus", "No, Ive had my say. Here comes the Emperor."), ("Antony", "Isnt it strange, Canidius, that he could cross the Ionian Sea so quickly from Tarentum and Brundusium and take Toryne? Have you heard about this, sweet?"), ("Cleopatra", "No one admires speed more than the lazy."), ("Antony", "Thats a good reprimand, suitable for reminding even the best of men to guard against negligence. Canidius, well fight him at sea."), ("Cleopatra", "Of course well fight him by sea. What else?"), ("Canidius", "Why do you want to do that, my lord?"), ("Antony", "Because hes daring us to do it."), ("Enobarbus", "So youve dared him to single combat."), ("Canidius", "Yes, and you dared Caesar to fight the battle at Pharsalia, where he fought against Pompey. But Caesar ignores offers that dont give him an advantage, and so should you."), ("Enobarbus", "Your ships are not well crewed. Your sailors are mule drivers, harvestersmen who were drafted quickly and have little training. Caesars fleet is manned by mariners who already have experience battling Pompey. His ships are maneuverable. Yours are slow and awkward. Refusing to fight him at sea wont disgrace you. Youve prepared for a land war."), ("Antony", "I will fight by sea. By sea."), ("Enobarbus", "Most worthy sir, if you do that you throw away all the advantages you have on land. You will have to divide your army, which mostly consists of battle-hardened foot soldiers. You will be unable to use your legendary battle knowledge. Youll be abandoning proven methods that promise victory, and instead youll put yourself at the mercy of haphazard chance."), ("Antony", "Ill fight at sea."), ("Cleopatra", "I have sixty ships. Caesar doesnt have any that are better."), ("Antony", "Well burn our surplus ships and fully man the rest. Well sail from Actium and beat Caesar as he approaches. Even if we fail at that, we can still fight him on land. Whats your business?"), ("Messenger", "The news is true, my lord. Caesar has been seen. He has captured Toryne."), ("Antony", "Can Caesar be there in person? No, thats impossible. Its strange enough that his army should be there. Canidius, take our nineteen legionsmilitary division consisting of 4,500 armored infantrymenlegions and twelve thousand horse soldiers. You must hold them on land. Well go to our ship. Come away, Cleopatra. Whats the news, brave soldier?"), ("Soldier", "Oh, dont fight by sea, noble Emperor! Dont trust rotten planks. Dont you trust my sword and these wounds? Let the Egyptians and Phoenicians go swimming. We are used to winning by standing on the earth and fighting toe to toe."), ("Antony", "Well, well, lets go."), ("Soldier", "By Hercules, I think Im right."), ("Canidius", "Soldier, you are. But Antonys decisions arent coming from his extensive experience. Our leader is being led. We are following a woman."), ("Soldier", "On land you keep the legions and cavalry together, dont you?"), ("Canidius", "Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius, Publicola, and Caelius will go by sea, but well keep the bulk on land. Caesars speed defies belief."), ("Soldier", "While he was still in Rome, he deployed his forces in so many different disguises that all our spies were fooled."), ("Canidius", "Whos his lieutenant, do you know?"), ("Soldier", "A man named Taurus, they say."), ("Canidius", "I know the man well."), ("Messenger", "The Emperor is calling for Canidius."), ("Canidius", "The present time is like a woman in labor, each minute giving birth to some piece of news."), ("Caesar", "Taurus!"), ("Taurus", "My lord?"), ("Caesar", "Dont attack by land. Keep the army together. Dont provoke them to battle until we have finished at sea. Dont exceed your orders as written here. Our fate depends on this chance."), ("Antony", "Assemble our squadrons on the other side of the hill, in sight of Caesars navy. From there well be able to see how many ships he has and plan accordingly."), ("Enobarbus", "Were ruined, ruined, ruined! I cant watch any more. The Egyptian flagship, the Antoniad, followed by all sixty Egyptian ships, has turned and fled. It destroyed my eyes to look upon it."), ("Scarus", "Gods and goddessesthe whole congregation of them!"), ("Enobarbus", "Whats wrong with you?"), ("Scarus", "We have lost a major portion of the world through utter foolishness. We have kissed away entire kingdoms and provinces."), ("Enobarbus", "How goes the battle?"), ("Scarus", "Our side shows all the signs of certain defeat, which appear like the symptomatic sores of the plague. Right in the middle of the fight, just when the battle could have gone either wayactually we had a slight advantagethat immoral Egyptian nagMay she die of leprosy!suddenly became frightened, and turned her ships around and fled."), ("Enobarbus", "I saw that. The sight made me so sick I couldnt watch any more."), ("Scarus", "Once she had turned around, the noble Antony, ruined by love, hoisted his own sails and followed her like a lovesick duck. He left the battle at the most crucial point. I never saw such a shameful act. He betrayed his own experience, manhood, and honor."), ("Enobarbus", "Terrible. Terrible."), ("Canidius", "The battle on the sea is almost lost. If our general had been his old self, we would have won. Oh, with his sordid desertion, he sets the example for our own."), ("Enobarbus", "Are you considering desertion, as well? Then everything must really be finished."), ("Canidius", "They fled toward Peloponnesus."), ("Scarus", "Its easy to get there. Ill go there and ascertain their next move."), ("Canidius", "Ill yield my legions and cavalry to Caesar. In this, I follow the examples of the six kings who have already surrendered."), ("Enobarbus", "Ill still follow Antony, even though the odds are against him and good sense tells me I should go the other way."), ("Antony", "Listen. The earth tells me to stop walking upon it, as its ashamed to carry me. Friends, come here. Im completely lost. I have a ship full of treasure. Take that. Divide it. Escape and make peace with Caesar."), ("All", "Flee? Not us."), ("Antony", "I have already fled from my true self. Ive told cowards to turn their backs on me and run. Friends, go. Ive decided on a plan that doesnt require your assistance. Leave. My treasures in the harbor; take it. Oh, I followed something Im ashamed to look at now! Even my hair revolts. The white hairs blame the brown hairs for being irresponsible, and the brown ones blame the white ones for being spineless and foolish. Friends, go. Ill give you letters of introduction to some friends of mine who will help you. Please, dont be sad, and dont tell me how reluctant you are. Take your cues from my own despair. Abandon the person that has abandoned himself. Go to the harbor immediately! Ill give you the title to that ship and its treasure. Just give me a moment, pleaseonly a moment. Ive relinquished my authority, so pleaseIll see you all before long."), ("Eros", "No, gentle madam, go. Comfort him."), ("Iras", "Yes, do, dearest Queen."), ("Charmian", "Of course you must comfort him! What else?"), ("Cleopatra", "Let me sit down. Oh, Junoqueen of the Roman godsJuno!"), ("Antony", "(seeing CLEOPATRA ) No, no, no, no, no."), ("Eros", "Do you see her, sir?"), ("Antony", "Oh, damn, damn, damn!"), ("Charmian", "Madam!"), ("Iras", "Madam, oh, good Empress!"), ("Eros", "Sir... sir..."), ("Antony", "(to himself) Yes, my lord, thats true. At Philippi, Caesar kept his sword in its sheath, like a dancer, while I commanded the armies that conquered Cassius and Brutus. Caesar fought only through lieutenants. He had no experience with the brave contests of war. But now... never mind."), ("Cleopatra", "Ah, give us some privacy."), ("Eros", "The Queen is here, my lord."), ("Iras", "Go to him, madam, speak to him. Hes not himself because he feels so ashamed."), ("Cleopatra", "Well, then, help me."), ("Eros", "Most noble sir, stand up. The Queen is coming. Shes weak and will die unless you comfort her."), ("Antony", "Ive destroyed my reputation, a most shameful error."), ("Eros", "Sir, heres the Queen."), ("Antony", "Oh, where have you led me, Egypt? See how I hide my shame from you by turning around? I look behind me to see my past, destroyed by dishonor."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, my lord, my lord, forgive my panic! I didnt think you would follow me."), ("Antony", "Queen, you knew very well that my heart was tied to your ship and that you would pull me along with you. You knew that my spirit was completely under your control and that I would ignore the gods orders in favor of yours."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, forgive me!"), ("Antony", "Now I will have to send my humble proposal of peace to that young man. Ive done as I pleased with half the world, making and losing fortunes, but now I negotiate from a position of weakness. You knew how far you had conquered my spirit. You knew that my sword, weakened by my love for you, would obey that love no matter what."), ("Cleopatra", "Forgive me! Forgive me!"), ("Antony", "Dont shed even one tear. One of your tears is worth everything that was won and lost. Give me a kiss. This repays me. I sent our childrens schoolmaster to Caesar with our offer. Has he returned? Love, I am full of heaviness. (calling) Servants, bring some wine and food! We have the most contempt for fortune when it goes against us."), ("Caesar", "Let the envoy from Antony come in. Do you know him?"), ("Dolabella", "Its Antonys schoolmaster. By sending such an insignificant emissary, Antony shows us how low he has sunk. Not so long ago, he had so many royal supporters that he sent along extra kings as messengers."), ("Caesar", "Come forward and speak."), ("Ambassador", "Humble as I am, I represent Antony. Until recently, I was as unimportant to his affairs as the morning dew is to the wide ocean."), ("Caesar", "So be it. Say what youre here for."), ("Ambassador", "He acknowledges that you are the master of his fate, and he requests to be allowed to live in Egypt. If that is not granted, he reduces his requests and asks only that he be allowed to live as a private man in Athens. Thats all he asks for himself. Cleopatra recognizes your greatness and accepts your authority. She only asks that the crown of Egypt pass to her heirs, who are now at your mercy."), ("Caesar", "As for Antony, Im not interested in his requests. Ill give the Queen a hearing and grant her requests if she either throws her dishonored friend out of Egypt or kills him. Then Ill listen to her. Give my answer to them both."), ("Ambassador", "May good luck follow you!"), ("Caesar", "Take him safely through the lines. (to THIDIAS ) Now its time to test your eloquence. On your way. Separate Cleopatra from Antony. In my name, promise to fulfill her petitions. You can make up additional offers, if necessary. Women arent strong, even at their best. Hardship will make even a vestalvirgin priestessvestal abandon her vows. Use your ingenuity, Thidias. You can make your own conditions, which I will authorize as law."), ("Thidias", "I go, Caesar."), ("Caesar", "Observe how Antony takes his defeat and how his attitude influences his actions."), ("Thidias", "I will, Caesar."), ("Cleopatra", "What are we going to do, Enobarbus?"), ("Enobarbus", "Think about our situation, then die."), ("Cleopatra", "Who is to blame for this: Antony or I?"), ("Enobarbus", "Only Antony was at fault. He put his desire in charge of his reason. So what if you ran from the battle, terrified, as ranks of ships threatened one another? Why should he have followed you? With half the world opposing the other half, it wasnt the time for Antony, the pivotal player, to let love distract him. To race after your departing ships, leaving his navy to watch, was a shame as great as the resulting loss."), ("Cleopatra", "Please, lets not talk about it."), ("Antony", "Is that his answer?"), ("Ambassador", "Yes, my lord."), ("Antony", "The Queen will be treated fairly if she gives me up?"), ("Ambassador", "Thats what he says."), ("Antony", "Tell her. (to CLEOPATRA ) If you send my aged head to that boy, Caesar, hell give you all the kingdoms you want."), ("Cleopatra", "Your head, my lord?"), ("Antony", "(to the AMBASSADOR ) Go back to him. Tell him that his cheeks still bear the pink flush of youth, and that the world expects to see something remarkable from him. His treasure, his navy, and his armies might belong to a coward, and his ministers might be able to succeed just as well on behalf of a child as under the command of Caesar. Therefore, I dare him to lay aside his fancy trappings and meet this old man in single combat, sword against sword, just the two of us. Ill write the challenge. Follow me."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside) Oh, thats likely! Caesar, the great commander of troops, will surely risk all he has gained in order to fight this gladiator in the public square! I see that mens judgments are tied to their fortunes, and that external factors influence a mans internal qualities, making everything suffer. How could Antony, knowing how luck stood on either side, still imagine that Caesar would respond to his nonsense! Caesar, youve conquered his judgment too."), ("Servant", "A messenger has arrived from Caesar."), ("Cleopatra", "With no more ceremony than that? See, ladies, how they scorn me now. They pinch their noses to avoid smelling the dying rose whose scent, as a bud, they happily inhaled. Show him in, sir."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside) My integrity and I begin to contradict each other. Being loyal to a fool makes loyalty foolish. But a person who can bear to keep his allegiance to a defeated lord defeats his lords conqueror and earns a place in history."), ("Cleopatra", "What does Caesar want?"), ("Thidias", "It is for your ears only."), ("Cleopatra", "There are only friends here. Speak confidently."), ("Thidias", "So they are possibly Antonys friends."), ("Enobarbus", "Sir, he should have as many as Caesar has. If he had that many friends, then he wouldnt need us. If Caesar chose, Antony would jump at the chance to be his friend. As for us, you know we are Antonys, and he is Caesars."), ("Thidias", "So be it. This, then, this is the message Caesar sends to you, famous Queen: he implores you not to be concerned about your situation. Just remember that he is Caesar."), ("Cleopatra", "Respectfully put. Go on."), ("Thidias", "He knows that you didnt embrace Antony because you loved him, but because you feared him."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh!"), ("Thidias", "So he regrets that any dishonorable acts were forced on you, not being performed of your own free will."), ("Cleopatra", "He is like a god and knows the truth. My honor wasnt given; it was only dominated."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside) Ill go get the truth of this from Antony. Sir, sir, are you so badly off that we must abandon you to your fate? Even your dearest friend has abandoned you."), ("Thidias", "Shall I tell Caesar what you request from him? He almost begs for the opportunity to help you. It would please him very much if you would rely on his wealth and success to support you. But he would feel even better if I could tell him that you had left Antony and put yourself under his protection."), ("Cleopatra", "Whats your name?"), ("Thidias", "My name is Thidias."), ("Cleopatra", "Most kind messenger, tell great Caesar that through his deputy I kiss his conquering hand. Tell him I am ready to lay my crown at his feet and kneel before him. Tell himwhose decrees are obeyed by the whole worldthat I will accept the fate he chooses for Egypt."), ("Thidias", "Thats your most dignified course of action. When confronted with the choice between a prudent action and a risky one, a wise man should dare to do only what he can practically accomplishif he follows this course, he will never be subjected to unpredictable chance. Allow me to pay my respects by kissing your hand."), ("Cleopatra", "When Octavius Caesars father thought about conquering kingdoms, he rained kisses on my unworthy hand."), ("Antony", "Promising favors? By Jove that thunders! Who are you, slave?"), ("Thidias", "A person who merely follows the orders of the best man, the man most worthy of service."), ("Enobarbus", "You will be whipped."), ("Antony", "(calling for servants) Come here! (to THIDIAS ) Ah, you bird of prey! Now by all the gods and devils, my authority weakens. Not long ago, when I cried, Ho! kings would jump up and cry, Whats your pleasure? (calling to servants) Are you deaf? Im still Antony. Take away this lout and whip him."), ("Enobarbus", "(aside) Its safer to toy with a lion cub than an old, dying lion."), ("Antony", "By the moon and stars! Whip him! If I saw twenty of the greatest powers that pay tribute to Caesar taking such liberties with her handwhats her name now? This woman who once was Cleopatra, but now has become something different? Whip him, fellows, until he screws up his face like a baby and cries aloud for mercy! Take him away."), ("Thidias", "Mark Antony"), ("Antony", "Pull him away, and once he has been whipped, bring him back. Caesars knave will bring him a message for us. (to CLEOPATRA ) You were damaged goods before I met you. Ha! Did I desert my bed in Rome, passing up the chance to have a legitimate family with a jewel of a woman, in order to be deceived by one who wastes her favors on servants?"), ("Cleopatra", "My good lord"), ("Antony", "Youve always been a liar. But when our vices become habitsOh, the sadness of it!the wise gods blind us, shade our better judgment, make us love our mistakes, and laugh as we strut to our ruin."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, has it come to this?"), ("Antony", "You were a cold crumb on dead Julius Caesars plate when I met you. No, you were one of Gneius Pompeys leftoversnot to mention your other, more depraved affairs, which have somehow managed to avoid becoming the subject of vulgar gossip. For Im sure that although you may know what temperance is, youve never experienced it firsthand."), ("Cleopatra", "Why are you doing this?"), ("Antony", "To let a servant be familiar with my little toy, your handa hand that has signed royal treaties and pledged your love to meoh, if only I were standing on the hill of Basanhome to herds of bulls (traditional symbols of men with adulterous wives), according to the BibleBasan, so that I could roar louder than that horned herd! For I have been savagely abused, and to state my grievances politely would be as absurd as a condemned criminal thanking the hangman for doing his job quickly. Has he been whipped?"), ("Servant", "Soundly, my lord."), ("Antony", "Did he cry? Did he beg my pardon?"), ("Servant", "He did ask for mercy."), ("Antony", "(to THIDIAS ) If your father is alive, let him be sorry you werent born a daughter. And you should be sorry to follow Caesar in his triumphal parade, since you have been whipped for following him. From now on, you should tremble and grow feverish whenever you see the white hand of a lady. Get yourself back to Caesar. Tell him how youve been treated. Be sure you tell him he makes me angry with him, because he seems proud and disdainful, harping on what I am now rather than what he knows. He makes me angryand thats easy to do right now, now that my lucky stars have abandoned me. If he doesnt like what Ive said or done, remind him that he holds Hipparchus, a slave I freed. He may whip, or hang, or torture him as he pleases. Then we will be even. Recommend that to him. Take your whipping scars and go."), ("Cleopatra", "Are you done yet?"), ("Antony", "You, my earthly moon, are now eclipsed, and that alone foretells my ruin."), ("Cleopatra", "(aside) I must wait for him to finish his tirade."), ("Antony", "In order to flatter Caesar, would you flirt with the servant who laces up his pants?"), ("Cleopatra", "Dont you know me still?"), ("Antony", "Has your heart cooled toward me?"), ("Cleopatra", "Ah, dear, if that is true, let heaven make poisonous hail grow from my heart, and let the first hailstone drop down my throat. As it dissolves, so shall my life. The next hailstone should hit Caesarion, until one by one all my children, and every one of my brave Egyptians, are killed by the dissolving of this pellet storm and lie unburied, covered by gnats and flies."), ("Antony", "I am satisfied. Caesar has made camp in Alexandria. I will fight him there. Our land forces have bravely stood firm. Our tattered navy has reassembled and set sail, as formidable as the sea itself. Where have you been, my bravery? Do you hear what I say, lady? If I come back from the battlefield again to kiss those lips, Ill be covered in blood. My sword and I will earn our place in history. We still have hope."), ("Cleopatra", "Thats my brave lord!"), ("Antony", "Ill be triple the soldier I was in strength, bravery, and stamina. Ill fight brutally. In the days when I had better luck, prisoners of war could buy their freedoms from me with simple trinkets. But now Ill grit my teeth and kill anyone who tries to stop me. Come, lets have one more extravagant night. Invite all my sad captains. Fill our wine bowls again. Lets drink through midnight."), ("Cleopatra", "Its my birthday. I had planned to celebrate it quietly, but since my lord is once more himself, I will be Cleopatra again."), ("Antony", "Well win yet."), ("Cleopatra", "(to ENOBARBUS ) Call all my lords noble captains to him."), ("Antony", "Do so. Ill speak to them, and then tonight Ill get them all so drunk that the wine seeps out of their old war wounds. Come on, my Queen. Theres still life in our cause. The next time I fight, Ill make Death love me. Ill compete even with his fatal scythe."), ("Enobarbus", "Now hell work himself up to a fury. Rage scares away a mans fear. In that state, a dove will attack an ostrich. I have always noticed that when my captains reason is diminished, his bravery increases. When courage consumes reason, it destroys its only weapon. Ill look for some way to leave his service."), ("Caesar", "He calls me boy and scolds me as if he had the power to whip me out of Egypt. He whipped my messenger with rods. He dares me to personal combat, Caesar against Antony. Let the old ruffian discover that I have many other ways to die, and in the meantime, well laugh at his challenge."), ("Maecenas", "Caesar must realize that when a man as powerful as Antony begins to rage, he has been pursued to the point of collapse. Dont give him time to catch his breath. Take advantage of his unreasonable rage. Anger does not protect the angry well."), ("Caesar", "Tell our top commanders that I want tomorrows battle to be the last we fight. Our army has recently acquired many of Mark Antonys former soldiersenough to capture him. See that it is done, and prepare a feast for the soldiers. We have enough supplies for it, and theyve earned it. Poor Antony!"), ("Antony", "He wont fight with me, Domitius?"), ("Enobarbus", "No."), ("Antony", "Why wont he?"), ("Enobarbus", "He thinks that since his fortune is twenty times better than yours, it would be like pitting twenty men against one."), ("Antony", "Tomorrow, soldier, Ill fight by sea and land. By the end I will either live, or else Ill restore my honor by shedding my blood. Will you fight well?"), ("Enobarbus", "When I strike, Ill cry, All or nothing!"), ("Antony", "Well put. Come on. Call out my household servants. Tonight lets have plenty to eat. Give me your hand; youve been truly honestso have you and youand youyou too. You have all served me well, and kings are your peers."), ("Cleopatra", "(aside to ENOBARBUS ) What is this?"), ("Enobarbus", "(aside to CLEOPATRA ) Its one of those nostalgic moods caused by sorrow."), ("Antony", "(to another SERVANT ) And youre honest too. I wish I could split into as many men as there are servants here before me, and that all of you could merge into a single Antony, so I could give you the same good service youve given me."), ("All the servants", "The gods forbid!"), ("Antony", "Well, my good fellows, wait on me tonight. Keep my cups full and treat me as you did when my empire was one of your fellow servants, obeying my commands."), ("Cleopatra", "(to ENOBARBUS ) Why is he doing this?"), ("Enobarbus", "(to CLEOPATRA ) He wants to make his followers weep."), ("Antony", "(to the SERVANTS ) Wait on me tonight. Its possible that this will be the end of your service. Its possible you wont see me again, or if you do, it will only be my mangled body. Perhaps tomorrow youll be serving another master. I look upon you as a person saying good-bye. My honest friends, I wont turn you away, but like a master dependent on your good service, I will stay with you until death separates us. Serve me tonight for two hoursI dont ask any moreand may the gods bless you for it."), ("Enobarbus", "What are you doing, sir? Youre making them uncomfortable. Looktheyre crying. And Im just foolish enough to tear up myself. Its embarrassing. Dont turn us into women."), ("Antony", "Ha, ha, ha! May the evil one take me if I meant it like that! Those tears will bring blessings to you. You interpret my words in a melancholy sense, my hearty friends. I spoke to encourage you, asking that you help me make this night a brilliant one. You should know, my friends, that I have good hopes for tomorrow, and that I will lead you as if I expect victory rather than an honorable death. Lets go to supper. Come, and lets drown our worries."), ("First soldier", "Good night, brother. Tomorrow is the day."), ("Second soldier", "This battle will determine who wins the war. Take care of yourself. Have you heard about anything unusual happening in the city?"), ("First soldier", "No. What was it?"), ("Second soldier", "It was probably just a rumor. Good night."), ("First soldier", "Well sir, good night."), ("Second soldier", "Soldiers, watch carefully."), ("Third soldier", "You too. Good night. Good night."), ("Second soldier", "This is our station. And if our navy wins tomorrow, no doubt our army will do their part."), ("First soldier", "Its an outstanding army and highly motivated."), ("Second soldier", "Quiet! Whats that sound?"), ("First soldier", "Listen! Listen!"), ("Second soldier", "Listen!"), ("First soldier", "Theres music coming out of thin air."), ("Third soldier", "From under the earth."), ("Fourth soldier", "Its a lucky sign, isnt it?"), ("Third soldier", "No."), ("First soldier", "Quiet, I say. What does this mean?"), ("Second soldier", "It means that Antonys patron god, HerculesAntonys family claimed to be descended from the demigod Hercules. Antonys patron god, Hercules, is leaving him."), ("First soldier", "Lets walk over and see if the other soldiers heard the same thing."), ("Second soldier", "Hello there, good sirs."), ("All", "(speaking at the same time) What now? What now? Do you hear that?"), ("First soldier", "Yes. Isnt it strange?"), ("Third soldier", "Do you hear that, men? Do you?"), ("First soldier", "Lets follow the music as far as we can without leaving our station and see if it stops."), ("All", "Good idea. Its very strange."), ("Antony", "(calling) Eros! Bring my armor, Eros."), ("Cleopatra", "Get a little sleep."), ("Antony", "No, my dear... Eros, come on, bring my armor, Eros. Come on, good fellow, help me into that armor youre carrying. If luck deserts us today, its because we defy it. Come on."), ("Cleopatra", "No, Ill help too. Whats this part for?"), ("Antony", "Ah, leave it alone. Leave it alone! You armor my heart. No! No! That part goes there."), ("Cleopatra", "Really, Ill help. It must go like this."), ("Antony", "Yes, well done. Weve got it now. Do you see this, my good fellow? Go and put on your own armor."), ("Eros", "In a minute, sir."), ("Cleopatra", "Didnt I buckle this well?"), ("Antony", "Excellently, excellently. Anyone who unbuckles this before I want to take it off to rest will be sorry. Youre fumbling, Eros. My Queens a better squire than you are. Hurry. Oh, love, if you could only watch the battle today and see how expert I am at my craft. Good morning to you. Welcome. You look like a person who knows the business of war. When we love our job we get up early and go to it joyfully."), ("Soldier", "Even though its early, there are already a thousand armored soldiers waiting for you at the harbor."), ("Captain", "The weather is fair. Good morning, General."), ("All", "Good morning, General."), ("Antony", "That was a fine fanfare, boys. Like a young man who wants to amount to something, this morning begins early. (to CLEOPATRA ) So, so. Here, give me that. This is how it goes on. Well done. Farewell, lady. Whatever happens to me, this is a soldiers kiss. It would be shameful to draw out our good-byes. Ill leave you without revealing any emotion, like a man of steel. (to the others) Anyone who wants to fight, follow me now, and Ill see you get your wish. (to CLEOPATRA ) Good-bye."), ("Charmian", "If it pleases you, lets go to your room."), ("Cleopatra", "Lead the way. He goes forth to war bravely. If only he and Caesar could determine the outcome of this war by single combat! Then Antony wouldbut, with circumstances as they arewell, lets go."), ("Soldier", "May the gods bless Antony today!"), ("Antony", "I wish you and your scarred self had convinced me to wage our last battle on land."), ("Soldier", "If you had, the kings that have revolted and the soldier that deserted this morning would still be behind you."), ("Antony", "Who deserted this morning?"), ("Soldier", "You dont know? Someone who was always near you. If you call for Enobarbus, he wont hear you. Or if he can hear you from Caesars camp, hell reply, Im no longer on your side."), ("Antony", "What are you saying?"), ("Soldier", "Sir, hes with Caesar."), ("Eros", "Sir, he left his belongings and treasure."), ("Antony", "Hes gone?"), ("Soldier", "Its certain."), ("Antony", "Eros, send his treasure to him. Do it now. Dont keep anything back, I insist. Write to him from meIll sign itsending greetings and gentle good-byes. Say that I hope he never has cause to look for a new master. Oh, my bad luck has forced honest men to become traitors. Hurry. Enobarbus!"), ("Caesar", "Agrippa, go start the battle. We want Antony taken alive. Make sure everyone knows that."), ("Agrippa", "I will, Caesar."), ("Caesar", "An era of universal peace is about to start. If this battle goes well for us, there will be peace in all three corners of the worldAfrica, Asia, and Europe, which were all under Roman rulethree corners of the world."), ("Messenger", "Antony has come onto the battlefield."), ("Caesar", "Go order Agrippa to put the men who deserted Antonys army at the front. That way Antony will feel like hes fighting his own men."), ("Enobarbus", "Alexas deserted. He went to Judea as if on Antonys business, but he persuaded Herod to support Caesar instead. Caesar hanged him for this service. Canidius and the others that left Antony are given hospitality here but no positions of trust. Ive done a bad thing, for which I will blame myself so much that Ill never be happy again."), ("Soldier", "Enobarbus, Antony has sent you all your treasure, with generous gifts besides. The messenger arrived on my watch and is unloading his mules at your tent."), ("Enobarbus", "Its yours."), ("Soldier", "Dont joke about this, Enobarbus. Im telling you the truth. Youd better bring the messenger safely through the lines so he can return. Id do it myself, but I cant leave my post. Your Emperor is still a king among gods."), ("Enobarbus", "I am the worst person alive, and I know it the best. Oh, Antony, you extravagantly generous man, how would you have rewarded me for serving you faithfully when you reward my badness with all of this gold! My heart feels like its about to explode. If grief doesnt kill me, Ill find a quicker way to kill myselfeven though I think grief will do the job just as well. I, fight against you, Antony? No, Ill go find some ditch to die in. The foulest fate would be most appropriate for me now in this latest phase of my life."), ("Agrippa", "Retreat! Weve advanced too far. Caesar himself is in trouble and there are more adversaries than we expected."), ("Scarus", "Oh, my brave Emperor, this is what I call a fight! If wed fought like this before, wed have driven them home with bandaged heads."), ("Antony", "Youre bleeding a lot."), ("Scarus", "I had a scar here that looked like a T; now its an H."), ("Antony", "Theyre retreating."), ("Scarus", "Well chase em into their latrines. I still have room for six more wounds."), ("Eros", "Theyre retreating, sir, and our superiority indicates a clear victory."), ("Scarus", "Lets slash their backs and grab em like we do rabbits, from behind. Its fair game to mark a coward."), ("Antony", "Ill reward you once for your cheerfulness and ten times for your courage. Come on."), ("Scarus", "Ill limp after you."), ("Antony", "Weve driven him all the way back to his camp. One of you run to the Queen with the news. Before sunrise tomorrow, well kill anyone who escaped today. I want to thank all of you. Youre formidable. You fought not as if you served the cause but as though it were as much your personal fight as mine. You are all HectorsHector was a powerful Trojan warriorHectors. Go on into the city. Embrace your wives and your friends. Describe your feats for them while they cry for joy. Their tears will wash the congealed blood from your wounds, and they will kiss those honorable cuts until they heal. (to SCARUS ) Give me your hand. Ill praise your actions to this powerful enchantress so that she will thank you with blessings. Oh, light of the world, (to CLEOPATRA ) wrap your arms around my armored neck. Leap, with all your finery through my armor and go straight to my heart. There you can ride upon my heartbeats, sharing in my triumph."), ("Cleopatra", "Lord of lords! Your courage is infinite. Have you returned smiling from the great battle for the world?"), ("Antony", "My songbird, we have beaten them to their beds. What do you think, girl! Even though there are some gray hairs among the brown, I still have a brain and muscles that will let me compete with younger men. Look at this man. Show him favor by letting him kiss your hand. (to SCARUS ) Kiss it, my warrior. Today he fought as though he were a god who hated mankind."), ("Cleopatra", "(to SCARUS ) Friend, Ill give you armor made of gold. It belonged to a king."), ("Antony", "He deserves it, even if it were covered with jewels like holy Phoebus carthe chariot that the sun god Phoebus drove across the skyPhoebus car. Give me your hand. Lets have a cheerful march through Alexandria, proudly carrying our dented shields. If we had enough room in the palace to house this army, wed all eat together and toast tomorrow, which promises to be full of danger. Trumpeters, blast the citys ears. Mix your fanfares with our drums, so that sounds from both heaven and earth will herald our approach."), ("Sentry", "If we arent relieved in an hour, we have to return to our barracks. The night is bright, and they say well be forming for battle by two a.m."), ("First watch", "That last day was a hard one for us."), ("Enobarbus", "Oh, listen to me, night"), ("Second watch", "Who is this?"), ("First watch", "Stay hidden and listen."), ("Enobarbus", "Be my witness, oh you blessed moon. The men who revolted against Antony will be remembered scornfully in the history books. But poor Enobarbus repented."), ("Sentry", "Thats Enobarbus?"), ("Second watch", "Quiet! Keep listening."), ("Enobarbus", "Oh, moon, you queen of sadness, drop poisonous dew on me so that my life, which continues against my wishes, will end. Take my heart and throw it against my hard, stony sin. My heart, which dried out with grief, will surely break apart into a powder, and that will be the end of my disgusting mind. Oh, Antony! You are more noble than my revolt is dishonorable. Forgive my crimes against you, but let history record me as a fugitive traitor. Oh, Antony! Oh, Antony!"), ("First watch", "Lets speak to him."), ("Sentry", "Lets listen to him. He may say something concerning Caesar."), ("Second watch", "Good idea. But hes sleeping."), ("Sentry", "It looks more like he fainted. No one ever gave a prayer like that before going to sleep."), ("First watch", "Lets go to him."), ("Second watch", "Wake up, sir, wake up. Speak to us."), ("First watch", "Do you hear us, sir?"), ("Sentry", "The hand of death has taken him. Listen. The drums softly wake the sleepers. Lets carry him to the barracks. Hes an important person. Our hour is up."), ("Second watch", "Come on, then. He may recover yet."), ("Antony", "Theyve switched their operation to the sea today. We didnt please them on land."), ("Scarus", "Were ready for both, my lord."), ("Antony", "I wish theyd fight in fire or in the air. Wed meet them there too. But heres the plan: our army will stay with us on the hills by the city. Orders have been given to the navy and theyve left port. Well be able to analyze and direct the battle better from the hills."), ("Caesar", "We wont move our land forces unless were attacked. And I doubt that will happen, since most of Antonys men are with his navy. Lets take up the best positions we can in the valleys."), ("Antony", "They still havent joined the battle. Ill be able to see better from that pine tree over there. Ill let you know right away how its going."), ("Scarus", "Swallows have built nests in Cleopatras sails. The fortunetellers wont say whether thats a good sign or a bad one, but they dont look happy. Antony is valiant and dejected. His mood changes by fits and starts; his checkered luck vacillates between hope and fear, winning and losing."), ("Antony", "All is lost! This treacherous Egyptian has betrayed me. My fleet has surrendered to the enemy. You can see them over there throwing their hats up in the air and drinking together like long lost friends. Three-time traitor and whore! Its you who have sold me to this youth, Caesar. Now my war is only with you. Tell the army to flee. Revenge on Cleopatra will be my last act. Order them to escape. Go! Oh, sun, I will never see another one of your sunrises. Luck and Antony separate here and now. Here well shake hands good-bye. Is it all come to this? The brave men who followed me like little dogs, whom I rewarded, have left me to follow Caesar. Ive been stripped of everything, betrayed. Oh, that devious Egyptian spirit! Her charms launched my wars and called them back again. Pleasing her was my main goal, and she lured me to total defeat. (calling out) Where are you, Eros! Eros! Ah, you sorceress! Be gone!"), ("Cleopatra", "Why is my lord enraged against his love?"), ("Antony", "Get out of my sight, or Ill give you what you deserve and spoil Caesars victory. Let him hoist you up in front of the shouting crowds! Follow his chariot, like the greatest disgrace to your whole gender. Let them exhibit you to the public for meager coins, like a monstrosity. Then let Octavia dig up your face with her nails. If you wish to live, you had better get out of here. But I think it would have been better if youd let me kill you. One death would have prevented the deaths of many others. Eros, ho! Im wearing the shirt of Nessus. Hercules was killed by a shirt poisoned with Nessus blood. Wild with pain, he threw his servant Lichas all the way to the sea. Im wearing the shirt of Nessus. Hercules, my ancestor, teach me how to feel your rage. Ill toss Lichas to the moon and use my mighty hands to kill my better self. The witch shall die. She sold me to that young Roman boy and now Im ruined. Shell die for it. Eros, ho!"), ("Cleopatra", "Help me, ladies! Oh, Antony is more furious than Telamon, who killed himself in a jealous rage. The wild boar of Thessaly, which the goddess Diana sent to punish King Caledon for neglecting her sacrifices, didnt foam at the mouth as much as Antony does now."), ("Charmian", "Go to your tomb! Lock yourself in and send him word that youre dead. When a great person departs, it causes more pain than when the soul leaves the body."), ("Cleopatra", "To my tomb! Mardian, go tell him Ive killed myself. Say the last word I spoke was Antony, and please word it pathetically. Go, Mardian, and let me know how he reacts to my death. (to the others) To the tomb!"), ("Antony", "Eros, can you still see me?"), ("Eros", "Yes, noble lord."), ("Antony", "Sometimes we see a cloud that looks like a dragon. Sometimes theres a cloud like a bear or a lion, a castle, a floating rock, a craggy mountain. Or it might look like a blue cliff with trees on it that bow to the ground. These things fool our eyes by seeming solid, when they are actually only air. Youve seen these illusions. Theyre spectacles that appear at sunset."), ("Eros", "Yes, my lord."), ("Antony", "What looks like a horse is quick as thought disfigured by the wind, made as difficult to distinguish as water poured into water."), ("Eros", "Thats true, my lord."), ("Antony", "Eros, my young friend, your captain is now just like that cloud. Here and now I seem like Antony, but I cant keep myself in this form, my boy. I went to war to save Cleopatra, whose love I thought I had, since she had mineand mine carried with it a million others, those of my soldiers, now lost. The Queen conspired with Caesar to undermine my success and assure his victory. No, dont cry, kind Eros. We still have the option of killing ourselves. Oh, your contemptible lady! She has disarmed me."), ("Mardian", "No, Antony. My mistress loved you, and her destiny was completely joined with yours."), ("Antony", "Get out, insolent eunuch! Silence! She has betrayed me and shall die."), ("Mardian", "A person can only pay with their life once, and she has paid in full. What you wanted is yours. Her last words were Antony! Most noble Antony! Then, as she was speaking your name, a strangled groan split her words. Antony was divided between her heart and lips. She gave up her life with your name still within her."), ("Antony", "Is she dead, then?"), ("Mardian", "Dead."), ("Antony", "Remove your armor, Eros. The long days work is over, and it is time to sleep. (to MARDIAN ) Permission to leave unharmed is abundant payment for your news. Go! Off! Take off my armor. Not even Ajaxs famous shield, made of seven layers of oxhide and covered in bronze, could protect my heart from this attack. Oh, chest, obey me! Heart, for once be stronger than all the rest of the body combined. Break out of my ribcage! Faster, Eros, faster. I wont be a soldier anymore. Battered armor, be off. You were worn with honor. (to EROS ) Leave me awhile. I will catch up with you, Cleopatra, and weep for your forgiveness. Its the only way left, because now any extension of my life would be torture. Since the light of my life has gone out, Ill stop here. Now any effort ruins what it attempts. Yes, even power gets in its own way. End it, then, and everything is over. Eros! Im coming, my Queen! Eros! Wait for me. In the place where souls recline on beds of flowers well walk hand in hand and amaze the other ghosts with our spirited demeanor. Those famous lovers, Dido and Aeneas, will lose their admirers, and the whole place will be devoted to us. Come, Eros. Eros!"), ("Eros", "What can I do for my lord?"), ("Antony", "Since Cleopatra died, I have lived in such dishonor that the gods despise my disgrace. Though I have made conquests throughout the four corners of the world and sailed with fleets so large they looked like floating cities, I dont have as much courage as a woman. I have less nobility than the lady who, by killing herself, says to Caesar, Only Cleopatra can defeat Cleopatra. You promised me, Eros, that should the ultimate moment arrivewhich it haswhen dishonor and disgust are inevitable, that upon my command, you would kill me. Do it. This is that time. You wont be striking me down, but defeating Caesar. Call up your courage."), ("Eros", "The gods forbid! Can I do what all the Parthian arrows, though shot by enemies, could not?"), ("Antony", "Eros, would you like to look through a window in Rome and watch your master marching in Caesars victory parade, his arms crossed and tied, his head bowed in submission, his face red from shame, while the chariot of triumphant Caesar precedes him, putting the final stamp to his humiliation?"), ("Eros", "I would not."), ("Antony", "Then come on. I must be restored to health by an injury. Draw your trustworthy sword, which you have used in such service to your country."), ("Eros", "Oh, sir, pardon me!"), ("Antony", "When I freed you from slavery, didnt you swear to do this when I asked you? Do it immediately, or all your previous services to me were accidental, without purpose. Take out your sword and come on."), ("Eros", "Then turn your noble face away from me, that face that the whole world adores."), ("Antony", "Look!"), ("Eros", "I have drawn my sword."), ("Antony", "Now let it carry out its purpose immediately."), ("Eros", "My dear master, my captain, my sovereign, let me say before I strike this fatal blow: farewell."), ("Antony", "Youve said it, friend, and farewell to you."), ("Eros", "Good-bye, great commander. Should I do it now?"), ("Antony", "Now, Eros."), ("Eros", "Well, then, there! With this I avoid the grief of Antonys death."), ("Antony", "Brave Eros, three times more honorable than I am! You teach me what I should do but could not. My Queen and Eros have by their brave examples beaten me to the history books. But I will embrace death as a bridegroom does his bride, and rush to it as to a lovers bed. Come then. Eros, your master dies your student. I learned to do this from you. What! Im not dead? Not dead? Guard, here! Oh, kill me!"), ("First guard", "Whats the trouble?"), ("Antony", "Ive botched the job, friends. Oh, finish what Ive begun."), ("Second guard", "Our guiding light is out."), ("First guard", "And time itself is ended."), ("All", "Sadness and despair!"), ("Antony", "Whoevers a real friend should strike me dead."), ("First guard", "Not me."), ("Second guard", "Me neither."), ("Third guard", "None of us."), ("Dercetas", "Your death and destiny advise your followers to escape. I only need to show your sword to Caesar and tell him about your death to get into his good favor."), ("Diomedes", "Wheres Antony?"), ("Dercetas", "There, Diomedes, there."), ("Diomedes", "Is he still alive? Why dont you answer me, man?"), ("Antony", "Is that you, Diomedes? Draw your sword and give me enough blows to kill me."), ("Diomedes", "Most powerful lord, my mistress Cleopatra sent me to you."), ("Antony", "When did she send you?"), ("Diomedes", "Just now, my lord."), ("Antony", "Where is she?"), ("Diomedes", "Locked in her tomb. She had a premonition of what has actually happened. She saw that you suspected her of negotiating a treaty with Caesarwhich never will be true. Afraid that your anger would not subside, she sent you word she was dead. But later, fearing how that news might affect you, she sent me to tell you the truth. Im afraid Ive come too late."), ("Antony", "Too late, good Diomedes. Call my guard, please."), ("Diomedes", "Hey out there! Emperors guards! Guards, hey! Come! Your lord calls for you!"), ("Antony", "Carry me, good friends, to where Cleopatra is. Its the last command I shall ever give you."), ("First guard", "Were very sorry, sir, that you may not live to wear us out with your commands."), ("All", "Its a very sad day."), ("Antony", "No, my friends, dont please fate by giving it your sorrow as well. If we welcome our punishment, we punish it right back by seeming to take it lightly. Pick me up. I have often led you, now you must carry me, my good friendsand take my thanks for everything."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, Charmian, I will never leave this tomb!"), ("Charmian", "Be calm, dear lady."), ("Cleopatra", "No, I wont. Strange and terrible events are all welcome, but I despise comforts. The size of my sorrow must be as great as its source. Whats the news! Is he dead?"), ("Diomedes", "He is close to death, but not dead yet. Look out the other window; his guard has brought him here."), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, sun, burn up the orbit in which you move, so that the world may be dark forever! Oh, Antony, Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help! Help, friends below; lift him up here."), ("Antony", "Be calm! It was not Caesars bravery that conquered Antony but Antonys that has triumphed over himself."), ("Cleopatra", "Thats the way it should beonly Antony should conquer Antony. But how terrible that it has happened!"), ("Antony", "I am dying, Cleopatra, dying. I just beg death to wait awhile, until I place the last of our many thousands of kisses on your lips."), ("Cleopatra", "I dont dare come downforgive me, my lordI dont dare, for fear of capture. I will never be exhibited as lucky Caesars prize. If knives, poison, or snakes have edge, effect, or venom, I am safe from that fate. Your wife Octavia, with her self-effacing eyes and self-righteous assumptions, wont get any praise from patronizing me. But come. Come up here, Antonyhelp me, ladieswe must carry you up. Help us, good friends."), ("Antony", "Oh, quick, before Im gone."), ("Cleopatra", "Such exercise! My lord is so heavy! Our strength has all turned into sadness. Thats what makes the weight. If I had the goddess Junos power, I would make the strong-winged messenger, Mercury, pick you up and seat you beside Jove. Up just a little morewishes are always foolishoh, come on, come on, come on! And welcome, welcome! Die where you have lived, in my arms. Let me revive you with my kisses. If my lips had the power to give life, I would wear them out like this."), ("All", "What a sad sight!"), ("Antony", "I am dying, Cleopatra, dying. Give me some wine and let me say a few words."), ("Cleopatra", "No, let me talk, and let me scold to the heavens, so that Fortune, that deceitful hussy, will become so upset that she breaks her wheel. Fortune was often depicted as a woman with a wheel, which controlled human beings fates. Fortune, that deceitful hussy, will become so upset that she breaks her wheel."), ("Antony", "One thing, dear Queen: request honor, as well as safety, from Caesar. Oh!"), ("Cleopatra", "Honor and safety do not go together."), ("Antony", "Dear, listen to me: dont trust any of Caesars men besides Proculeius."), ("Cleopatra", "Ill trust my determination and my hands, but none of Caesars men."), ("Antony", "Dont mourn over this unhappy reversal of fortune at the end of my life. Remember my earlier lot, when I lived as the greatest, most noble prince in the world. Im not dying shamefully, doffing my helmet to my countryman like a coward, but as a Roman, honorably conquered by another Roman. Now I feel my soul leaving. I cant speak any more."), ("Cleopatra", "Most noble man, will you die? Dont you care about me? Shall I stay in this dreary world, which is no better than a pigsty without you? Oh, look, ladies. The best of the world disappears. My lord! Oh, the glory of war has faded. The flags have fallen. Young boys and girls are equal to men. There is nothing distinctive, nothing remarkable left in the world."), ("Charmian", "Oh, stay calm, lady!"), ("Iras", "Our Queen is dead too."), ("Charmian", "Lady!"), ("Iras", "Madam!"), ("Charmian", "Oh, madam, madam, madam!"), ("Iras", "Royal Egypt, Empress!"), ("Charmian", "Quiet, quiet, Iras."), ("Cleopatra", "Now I am no more than a woman, ruled by the same lowly passion as the maid who milks and does the humblest chores. I might now hurl my scepter at the destructive gods and tell them that this earthly world was as good as their heavenly one, until they stole away its jewel, Antony. Now all is for nothing. Patience is foolish. Impatience suits a mad dog. So why should it be a sin to rush toward death, to seek it out in its hiding place before it dares to come to find me? How are you, my ladies? Tell me! Cheer up! How are you, Charmian? My gallant girls! Ah, ladies, look: the light of our lives has gone out. Good noble ladies, be brave. Well bury him, and then well commit acts as brave and fine as any Romans, and make death proud to take us. Come on, you can go. The container of that great soul is now cold. Ah, ladies, ladies! Lets go. We have no friends but determination and the quickest death."), ("Caesar", "Dolabella, go see Antony. Tell him to surrender. His position is hopeless. This delay makes him look ridiculous."), ("Dolabella", "Right away, Caesar."), ("Caesar", "What are you doing with a sword? Who do you think you are coming in here armed?"), ("Decretus", "My name is Decretus. I served Mark Antony, who was the commander most worthy of my services. While he was alive, I lived only to serve him and oppose his enemies. If you accept my service, Ill serve you the same way. If not, you can kill me."), ("Caesar", "What are you saying?"), ("Decretus", "Caesar, Im telling you that Antony is dead."), ("Caesar", "When such a great man dies there should be a thunderclap. The fractured world, in its confusion, should send lions into the city streets and humans into the wilderness to live in lions dens. This isnt the death of one man. Its the death of half the world."), ("Decretus", "Hes dead, Caesar. Not by public execution or an assassins knife. He killed himself with the same hand that performed such brave acts. With the courage his heart lent his hand, his hand in turn split his heart. This is his sword. I pulled it from his wound. Lookhis noble blood is still on it."), ("Caesar", "Listen, sad friends, though the gods may rebuke me, this news would make kings cry."), ("Agrippa", "Its strange that human nature makes us grieve for the very thing weve been trying to achieve."), ("Maecenas", "His faults were equally matched by his virtues."), ("Agrippa", "There was never a ruler as excellent as he. But gods, you give us faults so well be human. Caesar is upset."), ("Maecenas", "Its impossible for him not to see himself in Antony."), ("Caesar", "Oh, Antony. I drove you to this. But we have to get rid of a disease if it threatens our body. Either I had to ruin you, or you would have ruined me. There wasnt enough room in the world for both of us. Even so, let me mourn, with tears that heal like a bloodletting, that youmy brother, my greatest competitor, my partner in rule, my friend and companion on the battlefield, the very arm of my body, and the heart in which mine own hearts thoughts livedthat our fates could not be reconciled, which caused us to divide ourselves from one another. Let me tell you, friends Ill tell you at a better time. This man looks like his business is urgent. Lets hear what he has to say. (to EGYPTIAN ) Who are you?"), ("Egyptian", "A poor Egyptian, but my mistress, the Queen, sent me to find out what your intentions are concerning her. Shes locked up in her tomb and wants to prepare herself for her fate."), ("Caesar", "Tell her to put her mind at rest. Shell find out soon enough by one of our messengers how respectfully and kindly we plan to treat her. I cannot be taught how to be cruel."), ("Egyptian", "May the gods bless you."), ("Caesar", "Come here, Proculeius. Tell her we mean her no disrespect. Give her whatever assurances you feel she needs to keep her from killing herself. I need her alive, so that I can exhibit her in my triumphal procession and gain eternal fame. Go, and hurry back to bring us her reply and news of her state of mind."), ("Proculeius", "I will, Caesar."), ("Caesar", "Gallus, you go with him. Wheres Dolabella? Hes supposed to support Proculeius."), ("All", "Dolabella!"), ("Caesar", "Never mind. I remember hes already occupied. Hell be done in time. Come with me. In my tent Ill show you how unwillingly I was drawn into this war. Youll see how calm and gentle my letters to Antony always were. Come and see the proof."), ("Cleopatra", "Being alone has helped me better understand my life. Its pathetic to be Caesar. He cant be Fortune; hes only Fortunes errand boy. It would be a great deed to commit suicidethat act which ends all other things, which makes all accidents and changes stop. Which causes you to sleep, and takes you away from earthly concerns."), ("Proculeius", "Caesar greets the Queen of Egypt and asks that you consider what you will ask from him."), ("Cleopatra", "Whats your name?"), ("Proculeius", "My name is Proculeius."), ("Cleopatra", "Antony told me about you. He said you were a man I could trust. But I dont worry about being deceived because I dont need to trust. If your master wants a queen to beg from him, you should tell him that a queen will beg for no less than a kingdom. If he will grant me conquered Egypt, so that I may give it to my son, I will kneel to him with thanks."), ("Proculeius", "Be content. Youre in the charge of an honorable man. Dont be afraid. You can ask for anything from my lord. His generosity flows to anyone in need. If I can tell him that you have submitted to him sweetly, hell request your assistance in finding ways in which he can support you."), ("Cleopatra", "Please tell him I have surrendered to his fortune. I give up to him the glory he has won. Im learning every hour how to be subservient. Id be happy to meet with him in person."), ("Proculeius", "Ill tell him all of this, dear lady. Be at ease. I know hes sorry for your situation, especially since he caused it."), ("Gallus", "(to PROCULEIUS ) See how easy it was to capture her? (to soldiers) Guard her until Caesar arrives."), ("Iras", "Your majesty!"), ("Charmian", "Oh, Cleopatra! Youve been betrayed, my Queen!"), ("Cleopatra", "Quick, quick good hands!"), ("Proculeius", "Stop, brave lady, stop! Dont do such a shameful thing to yourself. Weve rescued you from yourself. We have not betrayed you."), ("Cleopatra", "What, am I being denied death, as well? The thing which even dogs are given, to rid them of their suffering?"), ("Proculeius", "Dont insult my masters generosity by killing yourself. The world will see how noble he is by the way he treats you. Your death would prevent that."), ("Cleopatra", "Where are you, Death? Come here. Come, and you can have a queen. One queen is worth more than a whole number of babies and beggars, your cheapest conquests."), ("Proculeius", "Oh, control yourself, lady!"), ("Cleopatra", "Sir, I wont eat. I wont drink. And dont expect me to talk. I wont sleep either. Ill destroy my body. Let Caesar do whatever he wants. Youd better understand that I wont wait till Im chained up in your masters court, and I wont let myself be scolded even once by dull Octavia. Shall I let them exhibit me to the shouting mobs of Rome? Id rather die in a ditch in Egypt, and make it my gentle grave. Id rather lie in the Nile mud with flies laying their eggs in me, making me disgusting. Id rather be hung in chains from one of our pyramids!"), ("Proculeius", "Youre letting yourself get carried away with these horrible thoughts. Youll see that Caesar is giving you no reason to do so."), ("Dolabella", "Proculeius, Caesar has heard about what youve done here and has sent for you. Ill take the Queen into my custody."), ("Proculeius", "So be it, Dolabella. Caesars thanks are my greatest reward. Be kind to her. (to CLEOPATRA ) Ill relay to Caesar any request you want to give me."), ("Cleopatra", "Tell him Id like to die."), ("Dolabella", "Have you heard of me, most noble Empress?"), ("Cleopatra", "I dont remember."), ("Dolabella", "Im sure youve heard of me."), ("Cleopatra", "It doesnt matter what Ive heard or known. You must be the one who laughs when boys or women tell you their dreams. Isnt that your habit?"), ("Dolabella", "I dont know what you mean, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "I dreamed about an emperor called Antony. Oh, I wish I could sleep again, so I could have another dream like that!"), ("Dolabella", "If youd like"), ("Cleopatra", "Authority radiated from his face, and his presence brought knowledge and order to the people of earth."), ("Dolabella", "Your majesty"), ("Cleopatra", "His power extended from one shore to the other, as if he straddled the ocean with his legs. When he raised his arm in command, the world trembled. He spoke exquisitely to his friends, but when he wanted to terrify the world, his voice was like thunder. There was no end to his generosity. The more he gave, the more he wanted to give. His amusements showed another side of him, one detached from his world of responsibility and duty. Kings and noblemen served him. Kingdoms and provinces dropped from his pockets like loose change."), ("Dolabella", "Cleopatra"), ("Cleopatra", "Do you think there ever was, or could there ever be, a man such as the one I dreamed about?"), ("Dolabella", "No, gentle madam."), ("Cleopatra", "The gods can hear you lying! But if there ever were such a man, simple dreams could never contain his greatness. When it comes to creating fantastical things, the natural world cannot compete with imagination. And yet, if the natural world could create something like Antony, it would have a masterpiece to rival anything fantasy might construct. Antony would easily outshine all imaginary beings."), ("Dolabella", "Listen to me, madam. You are a remarkable person and your loss is equally remarkable. You are responding appropriately to the greatness of that loss. I hope I never achieve success if I dont feel some of your heartbroken grief right now."), ("Cleopatra", "Thank you, sir. Do you know what Caesar intends to do with me?"), ("Dolabella", "Im reluctant to tell you what I wish you knew."), ("Cleopatra", "Please, sir"), ("Dolabella", "Though he is honorable"), ("Cleopatra", "Hell still parade me through Rome as a trophy of war."), ("Dolabella", "I know he will, madam."), ("Attendants", "Stand aside for Caesar."), ("Caesar", "Which of these ladies is the Queen of Egypt?"), ("Dolabella", "(to CLEOPATRA ) Its the Emperor, madam."), ("Caesar", "Arise. You need not kneel to me. Please rise, Queen."), ("Cleopatra", "The gods have ordained it to be like this, sir. You are my lord and master. I must obey."), ("Caesar", "Dont think I blame you. Whatever injuries I received in the war, I put down to the fortunes of war."), ("Cleopatra", "You are now the sole lord of the entire world. I cant explain my cause very clearly. I must admit to having the weaknesses that all women are accused of."), ("Caesar", "Cleopatra, understand that, rather than emphasize our power over you, we will soften if you accept our intentions, which are very compassionate toward you. Your acceptance will benefit you, but if you try to make me look cruel by committing suicide as Antony did, I wont be so generous. Your children will be destroyed, a fate your submission will save them from. Ill leave you now."), ("Cleopatra", "You may do whatever you want in the world. Its yours, and you may hang us, your trophies of war, anywhere you like. Here, my good lord."), ("Caesar", "You shall advise me in everything having to do with Cleopatra."), ("Cleopatra", "This is the inventory of the money, silverware, dishes, and jewels that are still in my possession. Its an exact list. Not even trivial things were left out. Wheres Seleucus?"), ("Seleucus", "Here, madam."), ("Cleopatra", "This is my treasurer. My lord, he will swear on his life that I havent kept a thing. Tell the truth, Seleucus."), ("Seleucus", "Madam, Id rather sew my lips shut than tell a lie when my life depends upon it."), ("Cleopatra", "What did I keep for myself?"), ("Seleucus", "Enough to buy everything you have declared."), ("Caesar", "No, dont be ashamed, Cleopatra. Youre very prudent to set a little aside."), ("Cleopatra", "Look around you, Caesar. Oh, just see what happens after the pageantry is over! What is mine will be yours now. If we were to change places, what is yours would be mine. Seleucus ingratitude makes me wild. (to SELEUCUS ) Oh, you slave! I cant trust you any more than a prostitute. What are you doing? Cringing away? Ill give you a good reason to cringe, I promise you. Ill scratch out your eyes, even if they could fly. You slave! Soulless villain! Dog! Oh, that was unbelievably low!"), ("Caesar", "Good Queen, let me implore you"), ("Cleopatra", "Oh, Caesar, I am so ashamed. You condescended to visit me here, honoring my humble self with your lordly presence. And one of my own servants increases my disgrace by adding his envy! Suppose, good Caesar, that I have saved a few feminine trifles, some unimportant trinkets. These have worth only as gifts to friends. And suppose I have kept a few more expensive gifts aside for LiviaOctavius Caesars wifeLivia and Octavia, to solicit their good wishes. Must I then be exposed by a person Ive supported? By the gods! It adds another blow to the many I have already. (to SELEUCUS ) Please leave, or Ill show you whats left of my spirit since my fortune was ruined. If you were a real man, you would have had mercy on me."), ("Caesar", "Leave, Seleucus."), ("Cleopatra", "You should also know that as head of state, we are often blamed for the crimes of others. And though we may fall, we are still responsible for their offenses. I am therefore to be pitied."), ("Caesar", "Cleopatra, our conquest wont include either the things you kept back or the ones you listed. Its all still yours. Do whatever you like with it. You can trust that Caesar is not a merchant to haggle with you over your property. So cheer up. Dont be captured by your depressed thoughts. No, dear Queen. We want to follow your own counsel when making arrangements for you. Eat and sleep. I have so much care and pity for you that you could call me friend. And so, good-bye."), ("Cleopatra", "My master and my lord!"), ("Caesar", "Not true. Good-bye."), ("Cleopatra", "Hes trying to talk me into forgetting my nobility, girls. But listen, Charmian."), ("Iras", "Its time to end it, good lady. The bright day of our lives is over, and now there will only be darkness."), ("Cleopatra", "(to CHARMIAN ) Go out again. Ive already given the order, and it is ready. Hurry with your errand."), ("Charmian", "I will, madam."), ("Dolabella", "Wheres the Queen?"), ("Charmian", "Look, sir."), ("Cleopatra", "Dolabella."), ("Dolabella", "Madam, according to my promisewhich my love to you has made a religious vowI tell you that Caesar intends to travel through Syria. Within three days you and your children will be sent ahead. Make the best use of this information you can. I have done your bidding and fulfilled my promise."), ("Cleopatra", "Dolabella, I will always be in debt to you."), ("Dolabella", "And I your servant. Good-bye, good Queen. I must go attend Caesar."), ("Cleopatra", "Farewell, and thanks. Now, Iras, what do you think? You will be exhibited in Rome along with me, like Egyptian puppets. Crude slaves with greasy aprons, rulers, and hammers shall lift us up so everyone can see. Their stinking breath will form a cloud around us, and well be forced to inhale it."), ("Iras", "The gods forbid!"), ("Cleopatra", "No, its certain, Iras. Insolent lictorsRoman officers who assisted the judgelictors will paw us as if we were streetwalkers. Disreputable minstrels will write bawdy songs about us. Hotheaded comedians will stage impromptu impersonations of us and depict the celebrations we had in Alexandria. Antony will be portrayed as a drunk, and Ill see some boy with a squeaking voice play Cleopatra as if I were a whore."), ("Iras", "Oh, the good gods!"), ("Cleopatra", "No, thats the truth."), ("Iras", "Ill never see it. I know my nails are stronger than my eyes; Ill scratch them out."), ("Cleopatra", "Why, thats just the way to frustrate their plans and defeat their absurd intentions. Now, Charmian! Women, dress me like a queen. Go get my best clothes. I will once again be as fine as when I went to Cydnus to meet Marc Antony. Iras, go. Now, Charmian, well be quick indeed. And after youve done this chore, Ill give you permission to amuse yourself until doomsday. (to IRAS ) Bring our crown and all the royal symbols of office. Whats that noise?"), ("Guardsman", "Theres a farmer here who wont leave without seeing your Highness. He has brought you figs."), ("Cleopatra", "Let him come in. What a poor instrument, that can do such a noble deed! He brings me freedom. My mind is made up. Theres nothing of the weak woman left in me. Now from head to foot Im as firm as marble. Now the inconstant moon has nothing to do with me."), ("Guardsman", "This is the man."), ("Cleopatra", "Leave us. Do you have in there the pretty snake of the Nile that kills without pain?"), ("Countryman", "I certainly do have him, but I wouldnt advise you to touch him. His bite is fatal. People who die of it seldom or never recover."), ("Cleopatra", "Do you remember anyone who died of it?"), ("Countryman", "Many people, men and women alike. I heard of one just yesterday. She was a very honest woman but rather inclined to liewhich a woman shouldnt do unless shes protecting her reputation. I heard how she died of its bite, how much pain she felt. Indeed, she gives a very good testimony of the snakes power. But if you believe everything they say, you wont be saved by half of what they do. But this is a sure thing: the snakes an odd snake."), ("Cleopatra", "You may leave now. Farewell."), ("Countryman", "I hope you are pleased with the snake."), ("Cleopatra", "Farewell."), ("Countryman", "You must know that the snake will act according to his nature."), ("Cleopatra", "Yes, yes. Farewell."), ("Countryman", "Listen, the snake is dangerous unless handled by people who are used to him. There isnt any kindness in the snake."), ("Cleopatra", "Dont worry; well remember your warnings."), ("Countryman", "Good. Dont feed it, I beg you. Its not worth feeding."), ("Cleopatra", "Will it eat me?"), ("Countryman", "Dont think Im so dumb that I dont know that the devil himself wont eat a woman. I know that a woman is a dish fit only for the gods, as long as the devil hasnt prepared the meal. But devils cause a lot of trouble for the gods regarding their women. For every ten women the gods make, the devils ruin five."), ("Cleopatra", "Well, you can go now. Farewell."), ("Countryman", "Yes, truly, I wish you good luck with the snake."), ("Cleopatra", "Give me my robe. Put on my crown. I long to be immortal. I wont drink Egyptian wine again. Quickly, quickly, good Iras, quickly. I think I hear Antony call me. I see him revive himself to praise my noble act. I hear him mock Caesars luck, which the gods give to men in order to balance out their subsequent wrath. Husband, Im coming! Now let my courage prove my title as wife. I am now made of fire and air, and I leave the other elements, earth and water, to this mortal life. So, are you done? Come then, kiss me and take the last bit of warmth from my lips. Good-bye, kind Charmian. Iras, I wont see you again for a long time. Do I have the asps poison on my lips? Did you fall? If you can leave your body so easily, then the touch of death is like a lovers pinch, which hurts but is desired. Do you lie still? If you leave like that, you tell the world that its not worthy of a good-bye."), ("Charmian", "Clouds, dissolve into rain, so that I could say the gods themselves are weeping!"), ("Cleopatra", "This proves that Im petty: if Iras meets Antony before me, hell want her first and give her the kiss that is my bliss to have. Come, you deadly villain. Separate me from life with your sharp teeth. Poor poisonous fool, be angry and bite. Oh, if you could speak, I might hear you call Caesar an ass whos been outsmarted!"), ("Charmian", "Oh, eastern star!"), ("Cleopatra", "Quiet, quiet! Dont you see my baby suckling at my breast so that its nurse will fall asleep?"), ("Charmian", "Oh, if my heart would only break!"), ("Cleopatra", "The poison is as sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentleOh, Antony! No, Ill take you too. Why should I stay"), ("Charmian", "In this vile world? So, good-bye. Now, Death, you can boast that you have an incomparable girl in your possession. Close, soft eyes. The sun will never be seen by such royal eyes again. Your crown is crooked. Ill straighten it, then play"), ("First guard", "Wheres the Queen?"), ("Charmian", "Speak softly. Dont wake her."), ("First guard", "Caesar has sent"), ("Charmian", "Too slow a messenger. Oh, come quickly! I almost feel you."), ("First guard", "(calling) Come in. Ho! Alls not well. Caesars been deceived."), ("Second guard", "Theres Dolabella, who was sent from Caesar. Call him."), ("First guard", "What kind of work is this, Charmian? Is this well done?"), ("Charmian", "It is well done, and appropriate for a princess who has descended from so many royal kings. Ah, soldier!"), ("Dolabella", "Whats going on in here?"), ("Second guard", "Theyre all dead."), ("Dolabella", "Caesar, you thought this would happen. Youre coming here yourself to see the dreaded act you had tried to stop."), ("All", "Step aside, step aside for Caesar!"), ("Dolabella", "Oh, sir, you are too good at predicting the future. What you were afraid of has happened."), ("Caesar", "She was bravest at the end. She knew what I intended to do with her and, being royal, she took her own way out. How did they die? I dont see any blood."), ("Dolabella", "Who was with them last?"), ("First guard", "A simple country farmer who brought her figs. This was the basket."), ("Caesar", "They were poisoned, then."), ("First guard", "Oh, Caesar, this Charmian lived until a moment ago. She stood and spoke. I found her adjusting the crown on her dead mistress. She stood trembling, then suddenly dropped dead."), ("Caesar", "Oh, noble weakness! If they had swallowed poison, it would be evident by external swelling. But she looks like shes asleep, as if she would charm another Antony."), ("Dolabella", "Here on her breast theres a little bloody mark. Theres a similar mark on her arm."), ("First guard", "This is an asps trail, and these fig leaves have slime on them, just like the kind that asps deposit on the caves by the Nile."), ("Caesar", "Thats probably how she died. Her doctor told me she had searched for an infinite number of easy ways to die. Pick up her bed and carry her ladies out of the tomb. She shall be buried next to her Antony. No other grave on earth shall hold a pair this famous. Momentous events like these strike those that cause them. Antony and Cleopatras story is as pitiable as my military exploits are glorious. Our army shall somberly attend this funeral and then depart for Rome. Come, Dolabella. See that there is a dignified splendor to this great solemnity.")]